ACIDUM LACTICUM.

COMMON NAME, Lactic acid.

ORIGIN.--Lactic acid is obtained from sour milk, resulting from the
fermentation of the sugar of milk under the influence of casein.

PREPARATION _for Homoeopathic Use_.--One part by weight of pure lactic
acid is dissolved in 99 parts by weight of alcohol.

     (A very complete proving of this remedy will be found in
     Allen's _Encyclopædia of Pure Materia Medica_, but little
     use seems to have been made of it, though the following
     by Dr. Tybel-Aschersleben, _Allgemeine Hom. Zeitung_,
     March 13, 1890, seems to show that it is very efficient
     in certain forms of rheumatism.)

We are by no means rich in remedies against arthritic rheumatism, and
those which we do use lack the reputation of being reliable. A new and a
valuable remedy will therefore be a welcome addition to this list. I say
reliable, inasmuch as this remedy is truly homoeopathically indicated
for, according to Foster, of Leitz, Niemeyer's Pathology, 10th edition,
2d vol., pp. 561: "_Lactic acid in large doses and used for a long time
will produce symptoms entirely analogous to arthritic rheumatism_." We
also find mention elsewhere that the use of lactic acid occasioned
rheumatic pains in the thigh.

CLINICAL CASES.

1. A young girl æt. 15 was afflicted with acute arthritic rheumatism,
she received _Acid Lacticum_ 2x dil., a dose every 2 or 3 hours, and was
so much improved in two weeks that the pain had subsided, and for her
remaining weakness _China off._ sufficed.

2. A nine-year-old girl was confined to her bed for three weeks with
acute arthritic rheumatism. _Acid Lacticum 2_ speedily cured her.

3. A miner, B., had been afflicted over six weeks with acute arthritic
rheumatism. The first dose of _Acid Lactic 2_ gave relief and a second
dose cured the man.

4. In a case with swollen and very painful joints one dose of _Acidum
Lactic 2_ sufficed to overcome the pain and the swelling. Against the
remaining weakness _China_ proved efficacious.

5. Arthritic rheumatism of the wrist vanished slowly after using _Acid
Lactic 2_ from two to three weeks.

6. A patient afflicted with arthritic rheumatism for four weeks,
accompanied by copious perspiration, soon mended under the use of _Acid
Lactic 2_ and was entirely cured within two weeks.

7. Even in a case of chronic arthritis with inflation of the Epiphyses
of Metacarpal bones and consequent partial displacement of the fingers,
_Lactic Acid 2_ produced such a decided amelioration that two months
later the report said: all pains are gone even the anchylosis has
disappeared.

     (It has also been successfully employed in cases where
     the digestive powers are weak and is said to be
     preferable to other acids in such cases. It has also been
     successfully employed in cases of dyspepsia.)


ÆTHIOPS ANTIMONIALIS.

     (This remedy is prepared by triturating together equal
     parts of _Æthiops mineralis_ and _Antimonium crudum_; we
     may add that the first named consists of a trituration of
     equal parts of _Mercurius viv._ and washed flowers of
     sulphur. Therefore _Æthiops antimon._ consists of
     mercury, crude antimony and sulphur.

     The following clinical cases illustrating the use of the
     preparation is by Dr. H. Goullon and was published in
     Vol. II of the _Zeitschrift fuer Homoeopathie_:)

The following case was cured in a few days by _Æthiops antimonalis_
after having been treated by a homoeopath who strictly followed
Hahnemann's rules, but failed to make an impression beyond a certain
point.

Miss A. inherited from her father, who was reported to have suffered
from laryngitis, a distinct disposition to scrofulosis and tuberculosis.
This was proved two years ago by a bloody cough caused by lung catarrh.
After the lung was affected she suffered from profuse sweats, especially
down the back, but of special interest was the appearance of a "quince
colored" swelling of the size of a pea at the extreme corner of the left
eye with suppuration which threatened the bulbus. A skilled specialist
removed by operation this pus-hearth, which no doubt acted as a
fontanel. The immediate result was a large furuncle under the arm and
the affliction for which I was consulted. A patient presented herself to
me whose appearance was shocking. Numerous parts of her face were
literally covered with thick, elevated fissured scabs. A scrofulent
liquid was oozing out, and the worst were those parts on the side of the
lower lip, the nostrils and the root of the nose. On the whole, a
certain symmetry could be observed in the arrangements of these
frightful diseased products.

This eruption, which according to its nature must be called
herpetic-eczematous, had existed for five months. The patient, who has
red hair, and is between 20 and 30 years old, contracted this disease at
the sight of a fainting sister. This kind of genesis is an established
fact. I remember of reading in Stark's "General Pathology" of an
instance where a mother was affected with eczema of the lips immediately
on seeing her child fall on a knife.

Our patient, however, lost the above mentioned sweats, which proves that
the fright had a metastatic effect. I learned that at first there
appeared very small spots which developed into pustules, infecting half
of the forehead. Scratching aggravated the condition, so that some
places assumed a cup-like appearance, somewhat as favus.

When patient came to me the face was oozing so terribly that the pillow
was thoroughly soaked in the morning, and she suffered greatly. When
asked the nature of the pains she said that they were sometimes itching,
sometimes tensive, and often indescribable, suddenly appearing and
disappearing.

What should be done? Certainly no strictly homoeopathic indication
presented itself since one might think of _Sulphur_, another of
_Arsenicum_, _Silicea_, _Hepar sulphur_, _Causticum_, _Mezereum_, etc.
In such case I have laid down, as a rule for my guidance, never to
experiment at the cost of the patient (and my own as well as
Hahnemann's), but to employ a so-called empirical remedy. I know
_Æthiops antimonialis_ as a very effective remedy through its
recommendation (by the Berlin Society of Homoeopathic Physicians) in
ophthalmia scrofulosa of the worst kind, a fact which I proved myself to
be correct. In this case, also, we find the deepest and most stubborn
disturbance of the organic juices and a subject with every indication of
the worst form of scrofula, ending in lethal cancer--dyscrasia or
tuberculosis.

The patient received the remedy in doses of the 1st centesimal
trituration, every evening and morning, as much as a point of a knife
blade would hold. There was no attempt at external removal of the
eruption, a method so much favored by the allopaths, and yet the simple
internal effort was magical, since after a few days the scabs were dried
up, had fallen off, and the terrible oozing as well as the pain had
ceased. The happy patient presented herself again on Friday, after
having taken the medicine for the first time on Sunday evening. Very
great changes could, indeed, be noticed which justified the hope for a
speedy and total cure.

I again ask all my colleagues which was the principle of healing in this
case? We may soonest think of Schüssler's therapeutic maxim, the
biochemic principle. The definition that this preparation acts as a
blood purifier is not sufficient, and yet it may be accepted as the most
intelligent.

Schoeman triturates the _Æthiops antimonalis_ with _Æthiops mercurialis_
(or _mineralis_), which last consists of equal parts of quicksilver and
sulphur, and says of the product: "It acts analogous to _Æthiops
mercurialis_, but stronger, and is therefore preferred to it in
scrofulous eruptions of the skin, scald, milk-scab, scrofulosis
conjunctivitis, keratitis, blepharitis glandulosa, otorrhoea and
swellings of the glands. It is especially valuable for children as a
mild but nevertheless effective remedy."


AGAVE AMERICANA.

NAT. ORD., Amaryllidaceæ.

COMMON NAMES, American Aloe, Maguey, Century Plant.

PREPARATION.--The fresh leaves are pounded to a pulp and macerated with
two parts by weight of alcohol.

     (We find the following concerning this little known
     remedy in Volume I, 1851, of the _North American Journal
     of Homoeopathy_.)

1. _Agave Americana or Maguey._--[Dr. Perin, U. S. A., stationed at Fort
McIntosh, in Texas, having many cases of scurvy to treat, and finding
the usual allopathic routine ineffectual, was led to make inquiry as to
the domestic remedies in use among the natives. Among others, his
attention was called to the _Agave Americana_ or _American Aloe_, and he
reports to the Surgeon General the following cases in which it was the
drug relied on. We extract from the _N. Y. Jour. Med._:]

Private Turby, of Company "G," 1st U. S. Infantry, was admitted into
hospital March 25th, in the following state: Countenance pale and
dejected; gums swollen and bleeding; left leg, from ankle joint to
groin, covered with dark purple blotches; leg swollen, painful, and of
stony hardness; pulse small, feeble; appetite poor; bowels constipated.

He was placed upon lime juice, diluted and sweetened, so as to make an
agreeable drink, in as large quantities as his stomach would bear; diet
generous as could be procured, consisting of fresh meat, milk, eggs,
etc.; vegetables could not be procured.

April 11th. His condition was but slightly improved; he was then placed
upon the expressed juice of the maguey, in doses of f. [Latin: ezh]ij.
three times daily; same diet continued.

April 17th. Countenance no longer dejected, but bright and cheerful;
purple spots almost entirely disappeared; arose from his bed and walked
across the hospital unassisted; medicine continued.

May 4th. So much improved so as to be able to return to his company
quarters, where he is accordingly sent; medicine continued.

May 7th. Almost entirely well; continued medicine.

Private Hood, "G" Company, 1st U. S. Infantry, was admitted into
hospital April 10th. His general condition did not differ much from
Private Turby's. He had been on the sick report for eight days; had been
taking citric acid drinks, but grew gradually worse up to the time of
his admission, when he was placed upon lime-juice until the 13th, at
which time no perceptible change had taken place. On that date he
commenced the use of the expressed juice of the maguey; same diet as the
case above described.

April 21st. General state so much improved that he was sent to his
company quarters.

May 22d. Well; returned to duty.

Eleven cases, all milder in form than the two just related, were
continued upon the lime-juice; diet the same. On the 21st of April they
exhibited evidences of improvement, but it was nothing when compared
with the cases under the use of the maguey.

Seven cases were under treatment during the same time, making use of
citric acid. On the 21st of April no one had improved, and three were
growing worse.

At this time so convinced was I of the great superiority of the maguey
over either of the other remedies employed that I determined to place
all the patients upon that medicine. The result has proved exceedingly
gratifying; every case has improved rapidly from that date. The
countenance, so universally dejected and despairing in the patients
affected with scurvy, is brightened up by contentment and hope in two
days from the time of its introduction; the most marked evidences of
improvement were observable at every successive visit. From observing
the effects of the maguey in the cases which have occurred in this
command, I am compelled to place it far above that remedy which, till
now, has stood above every other--the lime-juice.

This no doubt will appear strong language, but further experience will
verify it.

The juice of the maguey contains a large amount of vegetable and
saccharine matter, and of itself is sufficiently nutritious to sustain a
patient for days.

This succulent plant grows indigenous in most parts of the State, and,
if I am correctly informed, in New Mexico and California. In Mexico it
is well-known as the plant from which they manufacture their favorite
drink, the "Pulque," and grows in great abundance. As it delights in a
dry sandy soil, it can be cultivated where nothing but the cactus will
grow; for this reason, it will be found invaluable to the army at many
of the western posts, where vegetables cannot be procured.

The manner in which it is used is as follows, viz.:--The leaves are cut
off close to the root, they are placed in hot ashes until thoroughly
cooked, when they are removed, and the juice expressed from them. The
expressed juice is then strained, and may be used thus, or may be
sweetened. It may be given in doses of f. [Latin: ezh]ij. to f. [Latin:
ezh]iij. three times daily.

It is not disagreeable to take, and in every instance it has proved to
agree well with the stomach and bowels.

After the leaves have been cooked, the cortical portion near the root
may be removed, and the white internal portion may be eaten; it appears
to be a wholesome and nutritious food. I have seen muleteers use it in
this way, and they seem to be very fond of it. I have been informed,
upon good authority, that several tribes of Indians in New Mexico make
use of it in the same manner. The use of the leaf in this way, I
believe, will ward off most effectually incipient scorbutus.

     (In El Siglo Medico, 1890, Dr. Fernandez Avila reports
     the case of a boy, æt. 8, who had been bitten by a
     supposedly mad dog on Feb. 18. The wound healed up, but
     on July 7th the boy developed all the symptoms of rabies
     and on the 17th was so violent that he had to be tied and
     had not tasted food for seventy-two hours as all remedies
     failed to produce any effect, the doctor, having read
     that _Agave Americana_ was efficacious in such cases, and
     having none of the tincture at hand, gave the boy a piece
     of the plant itself which he greedily ate; it was given
     to him as long as he would take it. On the 25th his
     symptoms had all abated and he was dismissed cured.)


AMBROSIA ARTEMISIFOLIA.

NAT. ORD., Compositæ.

COMMON NAMES, Rag Weed, Hog Weed.

PREPARATION.--The fresh leaves and flowers are pounded to a pulp and
macerated with two parts by weight of alcohol.

     (The following concerning this little used remedy was
     contributed to the HOMOEOPATHIC RECORDER, 1889, by Dr.
     C. F. Millspaugh, at that time the editor):

Of late years much attention has been called to the species of the genus
Ambrosia (the Rag Weeds) as being, through the agency of their pollen,
the cause of hay fever. Many people afflicted with this troublesome
complaint lay the charge directly at its doors, while others claim that,
in all probability, it is the direct cause, as their sufferings always
commence during the anthesis of the plant. The general impression,
however, both among the laity and the medical fraternity, has been that
the effect was a purely mechanical one, the nasal mucous membranes
being directly irritated by the pollen dust in substance. If this were
true, would not every one suffer from hay fever? Impressed with the
above report, I had the pleasure of curing two attacks while writing my
work upon "American Medicinal Plants," in which the above species
figures. Since the publication of the work, all the cases I have had of
the disease (four) have yielded beautifully to the 3d centesimal potency
of the drug.

The four cases, Mr. B----, Mrs. I----, Mr. C---- and Miss P----,
presented the following generic symptoms: Inflammation of the mucous
membranes of the nose, adventing yearly in the autumn. At first dryness,
then watery discharges, finally involving the frontal sinuses and the
conjunctival membrane. In Mr. B. and Miss P. the irritation extended to
the trachea and bronchial tubes, in Mr. B. amounting to severe asthmatic
attacks. In all cases the coryza was very severe, and in previous years
lasted, in spite of all treatment, from four to eight weeks. Mr. B. has
found relief from _Ambrosia_ [Latin: ezh], three times a day, in from
four to six days, for three successive years, with no return of the
trouble in the same year; Mrs. I. has been relieved in from two to four
days for two years; Mr. C. gets immediate relief in twenty-four hours
(three seasons); Miss P., in this her first experience with _Ambrosia_,
found entire relief from six doses.


AMYGDALUS PERSICA.

NAT. ORD., Rosaceæ. Amygdaleæ.

SYNONYM, Persica vulgaris.

COMMON NAME, Peach.

PREPARATION.--The tincture is made by pounding to a pulp the fresh bark
of the twigs and macerating in two parts by weight of alcohol. The
infusion is made by taking of the bark one part and of boiling Distilled
Water ten parts. Infuse in a covered vessel for one hour and strain.

     (Outside the old herbalists the virtues of the bark and
     leaves of the peach tree have received little attention.
     The following contributed by Dr. C. C. Edson in the
     _Chicago Medical Times_, 1890, however, aroused some
     attention):

Some ten years ago I had a little patient whose principle difficulty
seemed to be an inability to retain anything whatever upon its stomach.
It would vomit up promptly everything I gave it, and I had given it
everything I had ever heard of and also had eminent council, but it was
no go; I was literally at my rope's end. At this juncture an elderly
lady neighbor, one of "the good old mothers," timidly suggested an
infusion of peach bark. Well, as it was any port in storm, I started to
find the coveted bark, which I was fortunate enough to procure after a
long tramp through the country and two feet of snow. I prepared an
infusion, gave the little patient a few swallows, and presto! the deed
was done, the child cured. * * It fills all the indications of the
leaves and many more. It fills the indications of hydrocyanic acid,
ingluvin, ipecac or any other anti-emetic. It will more frequently allay
the vomiting of pregnancy than any remedy I have ever tried. And nearly
every case of retching or vomiting (except it be reflex) will promptly
yield under its use. * * * For an adult the dose is five drops, and in
urgent cases repeat every five to ten minutes until the symptoms
subside, after which give it at intervals of one to four hours as
indicated. After ten years' use I am thoroughly convinced that any
physician once giving it a thorough trial will never again be without
it. Of course it is not a specific for all "upheavals of the inner man,"
but will I think meet more indications than any other known remedy of
its class.

     (This brought out the following from Dr. Kirkpatrick in
     the same journal):

I must say that I feel a little plagued after reading what Dr. Edson
says about _Amygdalus_; he has taken the wind out of my sails, but I
must give my experience. Quite a number of years since a good friend in
the profession called on me, and asked me to visit one of his patients,
honestly stating that he thought she would die. I went a few miles in
the country to see her. She had been vomiting blood for two or three
days, and, notwithstanding she had had oxalate of cerium, bismuth,
pepsin, ingluvin and other good remedies, everything she swallowed would
come up, so that she looked more like a corpse than a living being. I
ordered them to go out and get me some of the young switches of the last
year's growth from the peach tree; I had them pound them to loosen the
bark; I then nearly filled a tumbler with this bark, then covered it
with water. I ordered her a teaspoonful to be taken after each time she
vomited, one dose being given then, and one every hour after the
vomiting stopped. The result was, she vomited no more and made a good
recovery.

* * * In recent cases I have very rarely had to give the second
prescription to relieve morning sickness. I was visiting a doctor in
Quincy; while there he told me he was afraid he would have either to
make a lady abort or let her die, from the fact that he had failed to
stop her vomiting. I happened to have a sample of the medicine with me;
I gave it to him, he took it to the lady and in a few days he reported
her well. I may say, like Dr. Edson, it is a standard remedy with me. I
have found it very useful in hæmorrhage from the bladder. Some of my
lady patients find it very good in nervous headache. I have used the
tincture prepared from the leaves, but it is far inferior to that
prepared from the bark of the young shoots. A medical friend was going
to see a lady who had morning sickness; he told me he had thought of
advising her to use popcorn; I handed him a small bottle of my
_Amygdalus_ and told him to take a couple of ears of corn in his pocket
and try both. The next time I met him he said my medicine had done the
work.

     (Dr. Oliver S. Haines, of Philadelphia, also contributed
     the following experience):

Apropos of the remarks made by Dr. C. C. Edson upon the efficacy of
infusion of peach _bark_ in the gastric irritability of children, we
might mention the following authentic case:

An infant, during its second summer, had been much reduced by acute
dyspeptic diarrhoea. A marked feature of this case was the persistent
vomiting of all food. The stomach would tolerate no form of baby food
with or without milk. The child's parents had consulted some eminent
physicians of our city. The child had been treated homoeopathically.
None of the remedies chosen seemed to produce the desired effect. After
a consultation it was deemed best to send the infant to the mountains.
The change aggravated its condition. While the parents hourly expected
their baby would die, it was suggested that they send for an old
practitioner living in the mountains near at hand. This man had a local
reputation as a saver of dying babies. His prescription was as follows:
Two or three fresh peach _leaves_ were to be put in a cup of boiling
water, the infant to receive a "drink" of this infusion at frequent
intervals. The effects of this remedy were as remarkable in this case as
in the case narrated by Dr. Edson. Our child soon retained food and
eventually recovered.

It seems this ancient disciple of Esculapius had long used peach leaves
and regarded them as possessing specific virtues.


ANAGALIS ARVENSIS.

NAT. ORD., Primulaceæ.

COMMON NAMES, Scarlet Pimpernel. Poor Man's Weather-Glass.

PREPARATION.--The fresh plant, of the scarlet-flowered variety, gathered
before the development of the flowers, is pounded to a pulp and
subjected to pressure. The expressed juice is mingled with an equal part
by weight of alcohol.

     (This paper was arranged from the provings by Dr. W. H.
     A. Fitz for the Organon and Materia Medica Society of
     Philadelphia, and published in the _Medical Advance_,
     1891)

We think of this remedy for the following clinical indications:
Hypochondriasis, mania, epilepsy. Amblyopia, cataract, spots on the
cornea. Syphilis, hepatitis and indurated liver, visceral obstruction,
inflammation of rectum (horses), hemorrhoids, inflammation of kidneys,
gleet, copious urination (horses), gravel, syphilis with deranged mind,
nosebleed, pain in small of back, gonorrhoea, amenorrhoea, cancer of
mammea, sterility (cows), consumption, lumbago, itching, gout, bloody
sweat (murrain of calves), dropsy, ill-conditioned ulcers, snake bites
and hydrophobia, promotes the expulsion of splinters, inflammation of
stomach (horses).

It is characterized by great tickling and itching. We find tickling and
pricking in the urethra, in left ear; on tip of nose; at soft palate as
from something cold; in symphysis pubis; as from a brush against
epiglottis (with hoarseness); pain in right leg and at os illium;
itching on vertex and occiput; of eyelids; in left ear; on cheek bones;
itching and tickling stitches on left corner of mouth and upper lip; in
rectum; at anus after evacuation of bowels; on left side of chest,
principally on nipple; on neck and scapula; on inside of upper arm, just
above elbow joint; on back of right hand; tetter on hands and fingers.
In fact, great itching all over the skin.

HEADACHE just over supra-orbital ridges, with eructations and rumbling
in bowels; spasmodic lancination in temples, extending to eyes; pressive
aching in forehead and occiput from a current of air blowing on him;
intense headache and nausea, with pains throughout the body. Occiput:
dull or tearing pains and inclination to vomit; violent headache, with
hard, knotty stools; knocking pains in left side; dull pain all night.

PAINS: Teeth pain as from cold.

STITCHES: In scalp, over left ear and on occiput; in eyeballs; in
temples; in left corner of mouth; in right ear; in left side, region of
fourth and fifth ribs; in left tibia, when sitting, when moving leg or
foot; disturb sleep.

NEURALGIC PAINS: In right cheek bones.

Rheumatic, gouty pains.

TEARING PAINS: In occiput; in right cheek bone; in upper molars; in
spermatic cords; in muscles of left leg; disturb sleep.

DRAWING PAINS: In right testicle and cord; tensive drawing in left
shoulder to neck, returns when lifting or stretching arms; in muscles of
upper arm; especially when moving hands or arm in writing; in right
carpal and metacarpal bones (sometimes left), returning at regular
intervals; also tearing; in muscles of left leg.

PRESSING PAINS: In forehead and occiput; with stitching in eyeballs; in
eyes; on lungs; in sacrum.

DULL PAIN: In occiput; in hollow tooth, with trembling of heart; in
upper molars; in gums, accompanied by hard stools.

CRAMPS: In right thenar; ceasing there as it goes to the left.

VIOLENT PAIN: As if caused by external pressure on occiput, behind the
left ear; in sacrum when lifting, they take her breath; in muscles of
forearm, inside near elbow joint; in carpal and metacarpal bones,
extending to shoulder; in palm of right hand, extending between thumb
and forefinger, as if a pin were thrust through.

SENSATION: In lungs as if struck by a cushion full of pins; anxiety in
chest; skin of forehead feels too tight; tension in bend of left knee,
as if swollen or sore. Cold or chilly sensation on right frontal
protuberance; in teeth, as if something cold were placed on tongue; at
soft palate, as from touch of something cold; chilly, trembling;
scratching in throat after eating; when reading aloud.

Soreness on chest.

Burning in urethra.

Heat rising to head.

Dryness in throat.

Things seem to float to and fro; he cannot write.

PAIN: In right ear, as if meatus auditorius were obstructed; in facial
muscles, in lungs, in the front and the back up to the scapulæ; in right
side of back, followed by violent sneezing; in upper arm, outside, near
the shoulder; pain and twitching in the left thumb; in bend of left
knee; in upper part of metatarsus of right foot; in great and little toe
of left foot in morning; in sole of left foot.

Hence we find under--

LOCALITY AND DIRECTION--below upwards.

Pains in upper limbs.

RIGHT: Chilly sensation in frontal protuberance; pain in the eyeball; in
palm of hand; in about knee and tibia; in foot; pain and stitches in
ear; tickling pains in leg and os ilii; drawing in testes and cord;
pressure on lungs; itching on scapula; weak, lame feeling in leg.

LEFT: Knocking inside of occiput; pain in knee and posterior muscles of
leg; in tibia; in foot; glittering before eye; stitches over ear; in
corner of mouth (and itching); tensive drawing from shoulder; drawing in
muscles of leg; itching in ear; on side of chest; tight feeling in bend
of knee.

MOTION: In bed: trembling of heart with toothache; chilliness.

POSITION: Sitting with legs crossed; pain in and about right knee;
stretching arm; tensive drawing from left shoulder up to neck; lifting;
tensive drawing in left shoulder; pain in sacrum.

REST: Walking: pressure on right lung; motion: of leg or foot
< stitches in and left tibia.

TIME: Night: dull pain in occiput; neuralgia in cheek; tickling at
palate; erections.

Morning: burning in urethra when urinating; pain in feet.

Towards evening: spells of chilliness.

Evening: glittering before left eye; trembling, anxious feeling in
chest; toothache.

AGGRAVATIONS: Pain right eyeball < from touching lids; burning in
urethra when urinating, mostly in mornings; violent pain in sacrum when
lifting a slight load; tensive drawing, ascending from left shoulder to
nape of neck; < raising and extending arm; pain in right eyeball < from
touch.

AMELIORATIONS: Coffee relieves headache; burning in urethra before and
during erection, _ceases_ during coition.

CAUSES: Mental work causes great prostration (_Picric acid_); when
cutting with shears, cramps in ball of thumb; pressure on right lung
after eating, or when walking; pressing in eyes after headache;
obstruction and pain in right ear after pressure in eyes.

MENTAL STATE: Exhilarated, mind very active; everything gives pleasure.

NOSE: Nosebleed, violent sneezing, expelling lumps of yellow phlegm;
running of water from nose; copious secretion of yellow phlegm.

MOUTH: Viscid saliva in mouth, raised by coughing; water in mouth with
tearing pains in molars.

ABDOMEN: Distended with wind; weak feeling in abdomen.

STOOLS: Piles; passes offensive flatus; stools soft and pappy; watery
diarrhoea; stools hard, like stone, knotty.

URINE: Dark, straw-colored; orifice seems agglutinated; presses to
urinate; urine escapes in divided streams.

SKIN: Rough, dry; dry, bran-like tetter in rings; groups of small
vesicles, smarting and itching, oozing a yellowish-brown lymph, which
soon turns into a scurf, new vesicles appearing beneath.

ULCERS and swelling on joints; promotes expulsion of splinters
(_Hepar_).

RELATIONSHIP: Collateral relation. _Cyclamen._ Similar to _Coffee_
(joyous, excited); _Picric acid_ (prostration after mental exertion);
_Cyclamen_ (sneezing); _Lithia carb._ (rough skin, ringworm); _Sepia_,
_Tellur._ (ringworm); _Pulsatilla_ (chilliness; catarrhs); smelling of
_Rhus_, and, an hour later, taking _Col._, relieved sacral pains. _Rhus_
relieved swollen gums.


ARSENICUM BROMATUM.

COMMON NAMES, Arsenous or Arsenious Bromide; Arsenic Tribromide.

PREPARATION.--Add one drachm each Arsenious acid, Carbonate of Potassium
and Tartar to eight ounces of Distilled Water; boil until entirely
dissolved; after cooling add sufficient water to make eight ounces. Then
add two drachms of pure Bromine. _Clemens._

     (The following paper was translated, 1888, from the
     German (_Deutsche Clinic_, March, 1859) of Dr. Th.
     Clemens, by the late Dr. Samuel Lilienthal):

Arsenious acid, Arsenic blanc, Arsenic oxide, Flowers of Arsenic (AsO_3)
is commonly used as the only preparation in which it could be
assimilated. In the Solutio Fowleri we find a combination with Kali
carbonicum e Tartaro, a combination which allows to the Arsenious acid
its full destructive power. Now comes Spiritus Angelicæ comp. and the
pure chemical preparation smells like Theriac, but it ought hardly ever
be allowed to add something to a pure chemical preparation in order to
give it taste, color, and use. This Spir. Angel. comp. is made up of
Anglica, Siordium, Juniper berries, Valerian, Camphor, and Alcohol, and
Solutio Fowleri is prepared even to this day in the same manner, and
ought therefore be expelled from every pharmacopoeia, especially as it
is sure to spoil in the pharmacies if kept too long on the shelves.
Looking, therefore, for a better preparation, I prescribe now for the
last decade: [Symbol: Rx]. Arsen. albi. depurat. pulv., Kali carb. e
Tartar. [=a][=a] [Latin: ezh]j., coque cum Aqua destill. lb 1/2 ad
perfect. solutionem, refriger., adde aqua destil. q. s. ut fiat solutio
[Latin: ezh]xii., Dein adde Brom. pur. [Latin: ezh]ii. This solution,
which during first eight days is frequently shaken, becomes colorless in
the fourth week, and is then ready for use. It must be kept in a dark,
cool place.

I will now give my reason for choosing Bromine as a combination. The
study of mineral waters is an old pet of mine; many of them contain
Arsenic in combination with Bromine, and are all well known for their
roborating and alterating qualities. I begun, therefore, my experiments
with minute doses of _Brom. arsen._; gradually these were increased, and
I felt astonished what large doses were well borne, and how long I could
use this preparation without injurious consequences. After a few drops
of my solution I could prove Arsenic in all secretions, an experiment
easily made by Marsh's test. Experiments on animals with toxic doses of
either solution (Clemens and Fowler) showed that the same quantity
_Arsenicum brom._ is less poisonous (one has to be careful with the
selection of animals, as many of them, especially ruminants, bear very
large doses of Arsenic without injury). My preparation gives a rapid,
not destructive, but roborating action on every part of the body.

In doses of two to four drops daily, always to be taken in a full glass
of water, it always shows its specific action as an antipsoricum.
Herpetic eruptions and syphilitic excrescences or exanthemata dry up and
heal up, while simultaneously the relaxed and thoroughly infected body
steadily increases in turgor vitals. Glandular tumors and indurations of
dyscrasic origin, where any other treatment has failed, are scattered by
the long-continued use of my preparation. I have in suitable cases given
it for years without noticing any hurtful sequelæ, and after my patients
were cured I kept them under observation for years afterwards, and know,
therefore, that nothing injurious followed. This cannot be said of the
usual arsenical preparations, and old Heim, a great admirer of Arsenic,
opposed a lengthy use of it; he rather preferred larger doses, which is
rather a dangerous procedure. Given for a long time for carcinoma, it
stops the rapid progress of this fearful disease, and though at the same
time Chloride of arsenic was used externally, a real cure remained an
impossibility. My best successes were in obstinate cases of lues
inveterata, in the first stages of tabes dorsalis (ataxie locomotrice),
in the reconvalescence from exhausting acute diseases, in gastric
suppurations, inactivity of bowels, tardy digestion, constipation. In
cases where _Chininum sulph._ failed in intermittent fevers, I prescribe
_Brom. arsen._ twice daily, four drops, each time in a full glass of
water, gradually diminishing it to one daily dose, and in four weeks
even the most obstinate cases yielded to this treatment. The patient
feels encouraged by his increasing vigor, the fever-cakes disappear, the
bowels move regularly, and appetite leaves nothing to be desired. Those
mean obstinate cases of intermittens larvata, often appearing in the
form of unbearable neuralgiæ, yield more rapidly to it than to the
Quinine. It is often quite astonishing what good results can be obtained
by the daily use of only one drop of this solution, kept up for a very
long time in dyscrasic constitutions, who spent a fortune to regain
their health and failed with every other treatment. Its full solubility
and rapid assimilation are the reason that it can be used without
injury, but it must be taken largely diluted. Let me give you a few
cases for elucidation.

St., 46 years old, contracted syphilis several years ago and was
relieved of it by mercurial treatment and Zittman's decoction. About six
years ago he felt out of sorts, and a papular eruption appeared on
forehead, temples, and especially at the root of the nose. Though
treatment was immediately instituted, still in a few weeks the face of
the patient was covered by an ugly, foul-smelling crust. Cod-liver oil
was now taken internally, and applied externally till the scuffs fell
off and the eruption concentrated on three points. For six months that
treatment was kept up, but after being omitted for a few weeks, the
eruption spread again to its former extent. Every treatment was tried in
rotation without the least benefit. In the spring 1856 he entered my
clinic. In the centre of the forehead, at the root of the nose, on both
eyebrows, on the temples and right cheek there are moist herpetic
eruptions covered with crusts, exuding on least pressure an acrid ichor
and easily bleeding. Around these eruptions the skin is injected,
reddened, interspersed with a large network of veins. Cough and
expectoration hint to a beginning of tuberculosis, an heirloom in the
family. Little appetite, disturbed digestion, tardy defecation, and
evening fever. He is ordered Solutio arsen. brom. twice a day, four
drops in a glass of water, and already after two weeks the eruption
begins to dry up, appetite returns, and bowels are regular. A generous
diet and fresh meat several times a day are accessories to an arsenical
cure. After two months two crusts fall off and the skin under them is
soft, shining, somewhat red. About July all eruption had gone, and the
cough greatly improved. A few months ago I saw the patient again, and I
feel sure that the disease is eradicated.

Miss W., 42 years old, passed her childhood in the West Indies, and
brought from there a peculiar skin disease. When I saw her for the first
time her features looked old for her age, skin gray and sallow, hair
gray, rough, full of dandruff, and moisture oozing from the ears and
forehead. The scalp feels hard and thickened. The cervical glands are
indurated all around the neck. On the left chest an herpetic eruption of
the size of a dollar, and on the mamma a hard tumor of the size of a
fist. For a year past this tumor began to be painful and sensitive to
pressure, and my advice was sought for relief of all her ailments,
especially as her hands were also in a fearful state, where the eruption
looked as if she had the itch. The nails were discolored, knobby, easily
bleeding and covered with a gluey eruption. She had to wear and to
change gloves every day. For nine years she never entered society, as
the exhalation from her body disgusted even herself, and was hardly
bearable, though sponging the whole body and daily renewal of linen was
strictly adhered to. In such an obstinate chronic psoric case treatment
with small doses is at first necessary, and _Arsen. brom._, two drops
twice daily, ordered, and her cold bath continued. After four weeks the
dose was doubled, and after nine weeks the first glimmer of improvement
could be seen. The tumor in the mamma was smaller and painless, and
where before it was so sensitive as to be covered with oil-silk she
could bear now the pressure of her clothing. After four months steady
continuation of four drops twice daily, she was able to go without
gloves. The scalp also was cleaner, less hard, and the ears more dry.
But with the return of spring the eruption gained new vigor. The head
and hands became covered with suppurating nodules and small exuding
herpetic spots, which became confluent and itched terribly, a most
classic picture of the herpes of the ancients. Though for years she had
been accustomed to an aggravation in the spring, she never witnessed it
in such severity. I now omitted the drug and ordered head and hands
frequently washed with cold water. After eight days the storm calmed
down, and it was remarkable to witness the steady decrease of the
induration in the cervical glands and mamma. After four weeks the old
treatment was renewed. During the summer months she took regularly her
four drops twice daily, and in the beginning of autumn the dose was
reduced to two drops, and so continued during the whole winter. The
following spring crisis was the mildest one she ever experienced. During
the summer she took her four drops, during fall and winter two drops.
The third spring aggravation came with full severity, but lasted only
three days, when desquamation followed. Another year of the same
treatment and the fourth spring eruption showed itself slightly only in
small papules behind the ears and between the fingers, and were hardly
worth noticing. She now felt a slight weakness in right arm, which from
childhood up was rather weaker than the other one. After the
disappearance of the induration in the mamma the arm seemed to regain
its former strength and the patient felt therefore rather astonished at
the reappearance of the weakness when its cause seemed removed, but it
yielded readily to a mild constant current applied a few times, and some
faradic shocks each time from the shoulder through the arm, and in
September she went to Nizza in order to use sea-bathing, with the advice
to take for a whole year one drop daily of her solution. She considered
herself now well, but still her skin was flabby, especially on the hands
where the epidermis often desquamated, and the nails remained hard,
brittle and without lustre.

I may here remark that I found repeatedly Arsenic in the urine of such
patients. A case of obstinate intermittens larvata, characterized by
vomiting of chyme, also yielded to _Arsen. brom._ One case more must
suffice. A young man went to America but failed in his trade, and became
barkeeper on a Mississippi steamer, which place he had to give up on
account of intermittent fever. We find him then as hostler in Chicago
where he was laid up with an attack of cholera, and as he did not fully
recover his strength he returned to the old home again. When I saw him
for the first time the diagnosis seemed to be first stage of Bright's
disease. Anamnesis, ætiology, and present state, albumen in the urine,
justified the diagnosis. Patient is pale, bloated, oedema pedum, no
appetite, white tongue, thin feverish pulse, swollen spleen, watery
diarrhoea alternating with constipation. Every drug produced vomiting,
and he perfectly abhorred the old Quinine powders. I ordered four drops
_Arsen. brom._ and a full meat diet. Improvement followed with the
continuance of the treatment. After three weeks the spleen was reduced
in size, his face showed better color, hardly any oedema. To
strengthen the skin he was advised to take pineneedle baths, and after
three months' treatment he could be discharged, a well man. He was
advised to take for a few months one drop daily of his solution, and to
take often an airing in the pineries which abound around Frankfort.
Though he returned to America the latest reports from him are that he
feels again as well as ever, but he keeps his drops about him.

_Arsen. brom._ is also a powerful remedy in diabetes mellitus and
insipidus, for I cured cases with it where the patient had already been
reduced from 138 pounds to 98, and where the urine could be condensed,
by boiling, into syrupy consistency. Mixed diet may be allowed, though I
insist upon large quantities of fresh meat during treatment with
_Bromide of arsenic_. Let the patient take three drops thrice daily in a
glass of water, and after a week the insatiable burning thirst will be
quenched, and these doses must be continued till the quantity of sugar
in the urine is reduced, when the drug might be taken twice a day and
continued for a long time. A diabetic patient needs fresh pure air if he
wishes to get well; confinement in a room or in the office prevents the
action of any treatment, for it needs ozone to reduce the sugar of the
blood into carbonic acid and water.


ASPIDOSPERMINE.[B]

    [B] _Aspidospermine_ or _Quebrachine_ is derived from the
    Chilian "white Quebracho" (_Aspidospermia Quebracho_). At
    Santigo de Chile the bark is used as a substitute for
    Cinchona as a febrifuge. The alkaloid forms salts with
    Citric, Hydrochloric and Sulphuric acids.

PREPARATION.--Trituration of the alkaloid.

     (Dr. Edwin M. Hale communicated the following concerning
     this alkaloid to the _Homoeopathic Recorder_ for 1889):

_Dyspnoea._--This alkaloid is from the South American
tree--_Quebracho_. The maximum dose, according to Merck, is 1/10th
grain. I use the 1/500th trituration, which I find most efficient in
doses of 2 to 5 grains.

CASE I.--A boy of ten. The attacks of spasmodic dyspnoea were a sequel
of hay fever. The aggravation was at night, when lying down, or sleep
was impossible. I tried _Ipecac_ and _Arsenic_, but with no effect.
_Aralia_, also. (I never had any curative or palliative effects from
_Aralia_.)

Prescribed _Aspidospermine_, 1/500th trituration, 2 grains every two
hours, all day. The night was comfortable, could lie down and sleep.
Continued the remedy for four days, when he was so much better that the
medicine was suspended.

CASE II.--Cardiac dyspnoea in a man of 60. Valvular disease,
hypertrophy with dilatation. Distressing difficulty of breathing from
the slightest exertion; had to sit upright day and night. Face livid
from venous stasis. _Strophanthus_ regulated and strengthened the
heart's action, but only slightly benefited the dyspnoea. Five grains
of _Aspidospermine_, 1/500th trituration, every two hours effected a
marvellous change. He could walk about the house and out to his carriage
with but little discomfort. He has now continued it three weeks.
Observes no unpleasant symptoms. Can lie on his back and right side and
is very grateful for the relief. It seems to act as well as an aid to
_Digitalis_, or _Strophanthus_, in cardiac dyspnoea.


AURUM MURIATICUM NATRONATUM.

COMMON NAME.--Chloride of Gold and Sodium.

PREPARATION.--A mixture composed of equal parts of dry chloride of Gold
and chloride of Sodium, triturated in the usual way.

     (The following is an extract from a paper by Dr. H.
     Goullon in the _Allg. Hom. Zeit._, bd. 114, No. 12, on
     the therapeutics of this remedy):

Never have I observed gold so startling in its action as in the
following case: The patient is a type of the scrofulous habit; reddish
hair, pasty complexion, thick nose, coarse features. About thirty years
of age. He has had the misfortune of being infected by syphilis, and the
still greater ill-luck of being treated by mercurial inunctions and
iodine to excess. All these circumstances conjoined helped to produce a
complication of morbid conditions which would put medical art to a
severe test. Let us recall the region in which gold makes such brilliant
cures, and we find it especially suitable in an uncommon swelling of the
left testicle. In this case I do not exaggerate, when I say that the
scrotum was as large as a gourd of moderate size and the tumor was four
or five times larger in circumference than the right testicle, which was
also swollen. The entire mass simulated an oblong, heavy weight, like
those one meets with in old-fashioned clocks, and could hardly find
space in the capacious suspensory.

The skin was also involved. On the elbow was a wide-spread herpetic
eruption; on different parts of the body were gummy indurations; the ear
discharged; in short, the many characteristic manifestations of the
syphilitic poison were to be seen throughout the cutaneous and mucous
systems. There were also ulcerous formations in the oral cavity and on
the sides of the tongue.

After about four weeks the patient again set foot upon the floor,
saying: 'The drops have done wonders.' And indeed the influence upon the
testicles was so striking that now the right, which was formerly the
smaller, seemed the larger, without having actually at all increased in
size. Not the less remarkable had been the action of gold on the general
condition. The patient, formerly irritable and uneasy, is cheerful and
comfortable; enjoys sound sleep, whereas before he was disturbed with
morbid dreams; has lost his previous debility and disgust for
everything; and says that his digestive power is quite a different
thing. He assimilates articles of diet which he did not formerly dare to
take, unless he wished to suffer with flatulence, gastric acidity and
vomiting. Among other things punch, which he 'could not even smell,'
agrees well.

But, evidently, the mode of administering gold in such cases is not a
matter of indifference. And although I have only recently published a
cure with high potencies (in which I subsequently corrected the mistake
of the 100th _Dec._ for the _Centes._, which was what I used of the
_Natrum muriaticum_), I cannot commit myself to high potencies in
syphilitic complications. Experience in these cases is always in favor
of substantial doses. But, as we shall soon see, these proportionally
massive and heavy doses are always quite out of the allopathic
posological range, and even on this ground one must set boundaries, and
seek for the conversion of the traditional school. By two or three
clinical experiences of this sort many a Saul would become a Paul in
spite of all former prejudices, _vis inertia_, and most tormenting
skepticism. One-half grain _Aurum muriaticum natronatum_ was dissolved
in 6 grms. Spiritus vini, but of this first 6 drops are again put into a
wineglass of water, of which the patient takes a teaspoonful thrice
daily.

     (Dr. Tritschler, of the Gynæcological Clinic of Tübingen,
     furnishes the following on the use of this remedy in
     diseases of women. From _Allg. Hom. Zeit._, bd. 94. Nos.
     17. 18, 19):

Permit me now to specify some practical instances of the curative powers
of _Aurum_, and especially of _Aurum muriaticum natronatum_, in
reference to gynæcology.

CHRONIC METRITIS.

The first case is that of a woman with chronic metritis and prolapsus
uteri. Hydrarg. chlorat. mit. was given at first, which acted favorably
on the inflammation, but whose further use was prevented by its giving
rise to salivation. The intumescence of the uterus continued about the
same. Chloride of gold entirely reduced the chronic inflammation, and
restored the uterus to its natural position without external means.

INDURATION OF UTERUS.

The second case was an unmarried woman at the climacteric, the vaginal
portion of whose uterus showed an induration which disappeared during
the administration of chloride of gold.

HYSTERICAL SPASMS.

The third case was a woman with periodical attacks of hysterical spasms,
which involved the entire body, with unconsciousness lasting several
hours, asthma, palpitation, etc., beginning with a sense of coldness,
ascending from the abdomen, and perceptible even to the bystanders.
Sometimes the attack began with pulsation through the occiput.
Examination showed an inflamed uterus, filling not only the true pelvis,
and interfering with urination and defecation, but the enlarged uterus
perceptible through the thick abdominal walls above the pubes. At the
end of seven months, _Aur. mur. nat._ had entirely reduced the swelling.
The woman has enjoyed good health for several years, quite free from the
so-called hysteria.

INDURATION OF CERVIX.

It happened that a woman presented an induration of the cervix, together
with a remarkable softening in the posterior uterine wall. The result of
treatment with chloride of gold was, that in proportion to the decrease
of the induration there was an increase in the consistency of the
softened posterior wall. The woman, who had been married for three years
and childless, became pregnant for the first time and has since borne
several children. With this experience, the Gold-chloride was also given
for a softening of the atrophied cervical canal, in one case until it
was curved at right angles to the body of the uterus; also in a diffused
softening of the uterine tissues, with the result that the hitherto
sterile woman, after toning up the uterine tissue, attained the joy of
motherhood. * * * * *

Habitual abortion and premature labor recurring at about the same month
of pregnancy generally depended upon induration in some portion of the
uterus, which, preventing its natural expansion during gestation, gives
rise to premature expulsion of the foetus. By the use of _Aur. mur.
nat._ before and during pregnancy, the absorption of this induration
will conduce to the proper termination of parturition.

A swelling of the ovary, reaching as far as the umbilicus, I have cured
with _Aur. mur. nat._, and have improved others of considerable extent
very decidedly. Martini has cured five cases of ovarian dropsy in the
greatest possible degree with the same remedy.

Ulcers of the os and the vaginal portion, which had resulted from
inflammation and induration, some as large as a dollar, and of a
gangrenous character, were healed by the use of gold, without any
topical applications.

The profession considers ulceration and induration of the uterus
incurable. This dogma of theirs is based on the fact that the usual
change, the disturbance of nutrition, can neither be remedied nor
hindered in its advance. Now since ulcers are generally found only in an
advanced stage of softening and induration, it is conceivable why the
school--seeking a cure solely in the use of local means--turns away
almost entirely from the employment of internal remedies. According to
the opinions of the specialists the use of different remedies, partly
insoluble, partly soluble, pure or in combination, permanent or
transient, is indicated. Others apply ointments on sponges to the
surface of the ulcers, keeping them in contact with it by tampons.
Others again prescribe injections, and with these expect to attain the
end. Finally, glowing-hot iron, the galvano-cautery, or the knife and
scissors remove partially or entirely the vaginal portion.

Now, if the malady continues to thrive on the wounds made by these
procedures, if old cicatrices break out again, if too a permanent cure
is out of the question, there is ground for supposing that the _product_
of illness, the ulcer, may be cauterized, burnt and cut away, but that
the cause, the diathesis, the tendency to it, can only be removed by
internal medication. * * * * *

CHRONIC METRITIS.

One day an official in Dresden brought his wife to me, who was 41 years
of age. The couple, all of whose children had died soon after birth,
longed once more for children. The woman had aborted several times, and
both were intelligent enough to see that everything could not be right
with the sexual organs, and even begged for a gynæcological examination.
The result was in a few words: inflammation of both lips of the uterus,
a thickening of the cervical canal with a swelling of the posterior
uterine wall as hard as cartilage, and retroversio uteri. Menstruation
too early, dysmenorrhoea, blood dark, tarry, passing in clots.
Yellowish, fetid leucorrhoea. Stools retained, appetite changeable;
pains in the broad ligaments on both sides during rest as well as on
exertion. The so-called "facies uterina"--weeps much. Frequent
exclamations on the distastefulness of life since the death of all her
children, and on account of her present childlessness. Should I register
in my journal in the beginning of a scirrhus? I wrote simply: metritis
chronica; intumescentia labiorum orificii et colli uteri.

Prognosis, not unfavorable as far as regards the swelling, after my
already well-tested experience with _Aur. mur. nat._ But how about the
removal of sterility acquired in her 41st year. I was more cautious
about this. The cure took six months, and was not only accompanied by
absorption of the affected parts, but the woman became pregnant in good
time and gave birth to a boy with comparative comfort. Thus would the
wishes of the worthy couple have been fulfilled, if their joy had not
been banished once more by the death of the child in four weeks from an
attack of eclampsia.

ANTEVERSION WITH PROLAPSUS.

I now come in conclusion to a gratifying case, which I relate partly
because we make ourselves guilty of sins of omission in certain
instances through neglect of the needful investigation. A woman in her
twentieth year, quite healthy, had been delivered with forceps for the
first time two years before, nominally on account of deficient labor
pains. There was nothing unusual about the confinement. Immediately
after the first getting up, she began to have constant pain in the right
side of the uterine region, and soon a feeling "as if something would
fall out of the parts." The family physician paid no attention to these
persistent complaints for a whole year, until finally a constantly
increasing leucorrhoea demanded an examination. He now expressed
himself as unable to make a diagnosis alone, and the lady was referred
to a celebrated gynæcologist in Leipsic. Cauterizations were now
undergone at the professor's house at short intervals, and further
treatment of a similar character was to be carried out at the patient's
own house, which was, however, discontinued when the patient was
referred to me. Examination showed: metritis following upon
sub-involution of the uterus, anteversion with prolapsus of the whole
organ. Both uterine lips were swollen, and on examination with the
speculum a greenish-yellow discharge was seen to flow from the uterus.
All local treatment was discontinued, the woman received for the first
time in April, 1876, _Aur. mur. nat._, and in June, 1876, again became
pregnant; the treatment with gold was continued until the 8th month of
pregnancy, in consequence of which the uterus was found in its normal
position on examination twelve days after her safe confinement on March
30th. The menses, which up to this time had been very painful, returned
for the first time on the 25th of April, and were quite free from
suffering.

But now let us ask, whether we have in the salts of gold a simile for
the diseases of the female sexual organs under the comprehensive name of
chronic metritis. We find in the homoeopathic proving, inflammatory
affections of the internal organs; fainting depression and emaciation;
great anxiety, sadness, dizziness, whimsical mood, weariness of life,
morbid desires, and headache; nausea, vomiting; pressure in the gastric
region; cardialgia, contractive, drawing pains in the abdomen.
_Stitches in the left hypochondrium, pinching and burning in the right_,
the abdomen sensitive to touch, with distension; dull pains in the
abdomen; drawing and stinging in the whole abdomen; eruption of small
papules above the pubes; _decreased excretion of urine_, pressure on
urinating, burning on urinating; redness, burning, swelling and moisture
of the labia, _discharge of yellow mucus_, menstruation too soon and
lasts too long; amenorrhoea; labor-like pains, as if the menses would
appear; symptoms which certainly correspond to the whole picture of
chronic metritis and its results.

The mode of administration which I have used for _Aur. mur. nat._ is in
trituration. Generally I have had the patient herself divide into three
parts a 10 gr. powder of the 3d trit., and take one of these dry just
one hour after each meal. But I have also used the 1st and 2d
trituration. The effect cannot be seen before four weeks, hence I seldom
make a further examination before that time. Many women notice a
remarkable increase of the appetite during the use of gold. After the
administration of the 1st trit. I have observed frequent, dark stools.
An increase in the urine with a thick, gray sediment is often seen.* * *

UTERINE DISEASES.

Uterine diseases, according to my experience of many years, make more
marriages unfruitful than all the other known or fancied hindrances to
child-bearing. They can exist many years even with a blooming
appearance, without apparently disturbing the general health, and on
that account are often overlooked and mistaken by physicians themselves,
who are not concerned about gynæcological examinations, or else make
only superficial investigations, not having their eyes at the ends of
their fingers. I beg, therefore, if this communication should give rise
to a more extensive use of _Aur. mur. nat._, above all things, a
thorough gynæcological examination, not leaving this to the so-called
surgeons and midwives. If women complain of gastric troubles, dizziness,
pain in the loins and back, disturbances of urination or defecation,
with a more or less pronounced hysterical appearance, and withal
purposely or unwittingly deceive themselves and the physician; if, added
to these, leucorrhoea and a sensation as if everything would drop out
of the abdominal cavity, one may say of the patient that her uterus is
diseased, and may base upon that his proposal for an examination, which
will give the correct information of the nature of the malady. As a
rule, every deep-seated, morbid alteration in the uterine tissues
entails suffering upon the nervous system, which, being in such close
relation with the uterus, not seldom apparently suffers the most.

HYSTERIA.

Because the uterus receives its nerves from the sympathetic system,
which governs nutrition, circulation, respiration with distribution of
animal heat, gestation, etc., these functions being out of sight, it is
difficult to get at the root of the matter as regards the uterus in a
suffering woman. Her sensations and fancies offer, according to her
education, organization, etc., a wide field in which to make her a
burden to herself and others. Her mind is generally out of order, she
knows not why. In the more advanced stages of disease, the functions of
the higher nervous system, the organs of sense, and even the mental
activities are disordered. Then appears that chameleon of diseases,
which goes by the name of _hysteria_, suitable in so far as hysteria
almost without exception takes root in the "hystera" or uterus. I shall
certainly not deny the possibility of primary or purely nervous diseases
of the uterus, hysteria sine materia; I am nevertheless convinced that
in at least nine cases out of ten, hysteria depends upon objective,
sensible, perceptible changes in the uterus. It is these whose existence
I ascertain by a thorough examination, and according to these that I
regulate my treatment; they give me in every case a more certain
starting point than a lengthy account of true and imaginary suffering.
If I find, however, no palpable abnormality in the tissue to remove,
and prescribe _Aur. mur. nat._ simply as an excellent nervine,
following Niemeyer, it occasionally does good, but generally leaves me
in the lurch.


AVENA SATIVA.

NAT. ORD., Graminaceæ.

COMMON NAME, Oats.

PREPARATION.--The fresh green plant, gathered in August, is pounded to a
pulp and macerated with two parts by weight of alcohol.

     (Comparatively little has been written concerning this
     remedy, the tincture of oats. It acquired a bad
     reputation somewhere in the "eighties" by being
     advertised as a proprietary remedy making wonderful
     cures, but analysis showed the advertised "avena" to
     contain opium. The following outline of the drug is by
     Dr. E. H. Russell, in _North American Journal of
     Homoeopathy_):

_Avena sativa_ is pre-eminently an anti-neurotic, quieting the nervous
system to a remarkable degree. Its special sphere of action seems to be
upon the male sexual organs, regulating the functional irregularities of
these parts perhaps as much as any drug can. It is a most useful remedy
in all cases of nervous exhaustion, general debility, nervous
palpitation of the heart, insomnia, inability to keep the mind fixed
upon any one subject, etc., more especially when any or all of these
troubles is apparently due to nocturnal emissions, masturbation, over
sexual intercourse, and the like. For these disorders it is truly
specific. It is one of the most valuable means for overcoming the bad
effects of the morphine habit. In most cases in which the habitue has
not used more than four grains daily the opiate may be abruptly
discontinued, and even substituted, without any serious results. If a
larger quantity than this amount has been taken for some time, it is
better to gradually reduce the daily dose of morphine, in the usual
manner, simply prescribing the _Avena_ in addition. The latter should
be given in the same dose, as a rule, regardless of the amount of
morphine taken. In other words, it is not necessary to increase the
_Avena_ as the opiate is withdrawn. When the quantity of morphine has
not exceeded four grains daily it should be stopped at once, as stated
above, and _Avena_ given in its stead in fifteen-drop doses, four times
a day, in a wineglassful of hot water. By this method the disagreeable
after-effects will be much less than though the dose of morphine is
gradually reduced, and the patient will find life quite bearable, as a
rule, at the end of a week.

_Avena sativa_ should always be given in appreciable doses of the
tincture. Fifteen drops three or four times a day, well diluted, will
usually meet the case. It may be given in doses of from five to sixty
drops in rare instances. It should, however, never be given in larger
quantities than twenty minims unless the patient is thoroughly
accustomed to the remedy, and has found the usual dose insufficient.
Otherwise there is danger of getting the physiological effect of the
drug, which is _pain at the base of the brain_. When this symptom makes
its appearance the medicine should be discontinued for a day or two, and
then given in reduced doses. There seems to be no danger whatever of
forming the habit of taking this drug, as it can be suddenly abandoned
at any time without evil consequences, even when given in large
quantities. In one case it was prescribed by the writer in sixty-drop
doses, night and morning, _for one year_, and then abruptly stopped,
nothing being substituted therefore, without bad effects.

Whenever a quick action is desired, and in all cases where _Avena_ is
given to overcome the morphine habit, it should be prepared in hot
water. It is also a good plan to prescribe it in this fashion wherever
indigestion complicates the case.

The writer has employed this drug in his private practice for a number
of years with the most gratifying results. He has very rarely found it
to fail when indicated, and on account of his high opinion of the
remedy he has taken great pleasure in thus bringing it prominently to
the attention of the medical profession.


AZADIRACHTA INDICA.

PREPARATION.--The fresh bark is pounded to a pulp and macerated in two
parts by weight of alcohol.

     (The following synopsis of _Azadirachta Ind._, is
     contributed by P. C. Majumdar, M. D., of Calcutta,
     India):

_Azadirachta Indica._ Syn.: Sanskrit, Nimba; Bengala and Hindi, Nim.
Belongs to the natural order Meliaeæ. It is a large tree. Bark is used
for making tinctures from which provings were instituted. The leaves,
bark, wood, roots and fruits, in short, every part of this tree, is
intensely bitter. According to Ayurveda (Hindu System of Medicine) the
different parts of this tree possess different medicinal properties.
Bhava Misra, Charak, Susratha and several other Sanskrit authors agree
that its bark, though very disagreeable in taste, is generally used with
success in cases of lassitude, thirst, cough, fever, loss of appetite,
helmenthiasis, boils, bilious derangements, catarrh, vomiting, cutaneous
diseases, hiccough, gonorrhoea, etc.; its leaves are used in some
forms of ophthalmic disease, helmenthiasis and disorders brought on by
deranged bile or use of poisonous things. A decoction of fresh leaves is
used as a favorite wash to cure old ulcers of long standing. It removes
within a short time the sloughs and promotes the healing. The fruit is
purgative, demulcent, and is used in some forms of cutaneous affections.
A kind of oil is produced from the seed of ripe fruits, and this oil is
said to cure lepra, eczema and some other obstinate skin diseases.

Nim is also praised by some of the Allopathic physicians for its tonic,
antiseptic, astringent and anti-periodic properties. Its febrifuge
action is well-known in our country. Kanirages (native physicians) use
Nim as the principal substance in their febrifuge medicines. The vast
range of its action is chiefly due to azaderine, margocine and katechin,
the three active principles found in this tree. Nim was proved by me and
one of my students, U. C. Bagchi. A full report of the proving was
published in the _Indian Homoeopathic Review_, Vol. iii, No. 1. Here I
give the most reliable and peculiar symptoms obtained in its proving.

Mind: Depressed and forgetful, mistakes in writing and spelling words,
weak and dull, full of anxiety, inactive, could not think or remember
names of persons very familiar, or what has been done in the previous
day. No desire to go out or walk out. Loss of memory.

Head: Giddiness, as if the head were moving to and fro, especially when
rising from a sitting posture; headache, pressure in the head, by moving
it; headache, throbbing in the temporal arteries, especially of the
right side, with a little vertigo; aching, drawing and throbbing in the
whole head; headache, by wet compress, with much pain in the right
eyeball; headache, on moving; headache on the right side with much pain.
Frontal headache, especially on the right side, in the open air.
Throbbing in the vertex, by stooping; scalp is painful and sensitive to
touch, even the hair is painful. Vertigo at 10 A.M.; intense headache,
pain in the whole head; on walking pain is felt in the back part of the
head.

Eyes: Burning in the eyes; burning of the eyes continued throughout even
the next day; burning, dull and heavy. Pain in the eye, by slightest
pressure; red, congested and burning with slight coryza; sense of
pressure in the right eye; eyes red and sunken; pressive pain in the
right eyeball.

Ears: Buzzing in the ears; a peculiar cracking sound is heard in the ear
like tickling with a feather, which is increased on opening the mouth.

Nose: Running of watery fluid from the nose.

Face: Flushings of the face; flushing and heat in the face; face pale.

Mouth: No thirst but mouth is clammy, water has relish; taste good, but
mouth is clammy and bitter. On the sides and surface of the tongue a
painful burning sensation is felt as if scalded; papillæ seem to be
enlarged and prominent. Putrid taste in the mouth. Saliva coming out
which tastes salty. Slight difficulty in deglutition, especially water
and meat.

Throat: Bitter taste in the throat; left-sided sore throat.

Stomach: No thirst; appetite very acute and keen; very great thirst for
large quantity of cold water; very great thirst at long interval.
Heart-burn and water-brash. Uneasy sensation in the thorax.

Abdomen: Great uneasiness in the abdomen with flatulent rumbling in the
bowels; twisting pain in the epigastric region; no tenderness in the
abdomen; clutching pain in the umbilical region, obliging to bend
forwards, which affords some relief; abdomen a little distended, passing
of offensive flatus; painful tension in the hypochondriac region.

Stools: Insufficient; bowels very much constipated; stools hard, small
and knotty; stools hard, but natural; stools copious, soft, semi-solid.
Diarrhoea, no satisfaction after stool.

Genito-urinary organs: Great excitement of sexual organ (in male);
sexual desire a little diminished. Urine scanty and high-colored, and
scalding; urine white, clear and copious; urine of strong odor (once
with purple sediment).

Respiratory organs: Very troublesome cough after bathing at 1 P.M. Sputa
white in small lumps expelled with much difficulty. Sighing, breathing
at intervals. Slight hoarseness. Cough with greyish expectoration; cough
with thick sputa; short, dry cough in the afternoon; very troublesome
cough with white sputa and tasteless. Deep breathing at long intervals;
breathing very rapid and hot.

Chest and throat: Aching in the lower part of the right chest, below the
nipple. Stitches in the chest. Crampy pains in the lower part of chest.
Transitory stitches in the chest, especially in the right side.

Pulse, quick and hard, feeble.

Neck and back: Pain and debility in the nape of the neck.

Extremities: Numbness of the limbs, as if the limbs are paralyzed.
Gnawing in the legs. Strength of the hand diminished. Burning of the
hands and soles of the feet. Numbness of the hands only, especially the
right hand. Rheumatic pains in the lower extremities.

Sleep and dreams: Sleeplessness and tossing in bed; dreamy and
interrupted sleep at night. Dreams of quarrels and beating in the latter
part of night.

Fever: Fever commences with very slight chill or without chill from 4:30
P.M., and abates from 7:30 P.M.; afternoon fever. Glowing heat and
burning, especially in the face, eyes, palms of the hands and soles of
the feet, in open air.

Copious sweat, especially on the forehead, neck and upper part of the
body; sweating commences on the forehead, gradually extending towards
the trunk; no sweat in the lower part of the body.

Skin: Itching of various parts of the body, without the appearance of
any eruption; itching of the body. Sudamina on the back.


BACILLINUM, TUBERCULINUM AND AVIAIRE, THE VIRUSES OF TUBERCULOSIS.

PREPARATION.--Triturate in the usual way.

     (The literature on these several preparations is so
     extensive that we must confine ourselves to the paper
     read by Dr. Francois Cartier, Physician to the Hospital
     St. Jacques, Paris, at the International Homoeopathic
     Congress, 1896, it covering the ground more completely
     than any other. For fuller information on _Bacillinum_
     the reader is referred to Dr. J. Compton Burnett's book,
     the _New Cure for Consumption_.)

I must disclaim any intention of traversing afresh the pathogenesy of
_Tuberculin_, or of instituting an examination into the various
treatises put forth on the subject of the virus of tuberculosis by the
allopathic as well as by the homoeopathic school.

The materia medica of _Tuberculin_ takes its rise in the complex result
of the use of Koch's lymph, in experiments upon animals, and in certain
symptoms observed by those who have experimented upon themselves with
different products of tuberculous nature. I shall therefore indicate the
published sources, and I specially desire to place before the
Homoeopathic Congress of London the tuberculous virus under certain
aspects which are perhaps new; and if my conclusions seem somewhat
paradoxical I am content to accept, with a good grace, the criticisms of
my colleagues.

Fourteen years anterior to the researches of Koch, Hering, Swan and
Biegler availed themselves, as a homoeopathic remedy, of the
maceration of tuberculous lungs, and of the sputa of tuberculous
subjects.

Dr. J. Compton Burnett in his book, "A Cure for Consumption," several
years before Koch's experiments, noticed symptoms resulting from taking
the preparation which he calls _Bacillinum_.

Drs. de Keghel[C] and J. H. Clarke[D] instituted an inquiry into the
symptoms produced by the employment of Koch's lymph in the case of
tuberculous and non-tuberculous patients.

    [C] _L' Union Homéopathique_, vol. v, No. 3.

    [D] _Homoeopathic World_, vol. xxvi, No. 304.

Dr. Mersch[E] published a pathogenesy, based to a large extent upon that
of Dr. de Keghel; it is an excellent work.

    [E] "On Tuberculin," an extract from the _Journal Belge d'
    homéopathie_, 1895.

Dr. d'Abzen,[F] of Lisbon, sent to the Tuberculosis Congress of 1895, at
Coimbra, a study of the works of Koch and Pasteur, and an enumeration of
the treatises published by homoeopathists.

    [F] _Pathogenese, sua importancia._

We must notice also an English translation of Dr. Mersch's pathogenesy,
by Dr. Arnulphy, of Chicago, in which special attention is paid to the
symptoms observed in healthy and non-tuberculous persons, with some
original remarks about _Tuberculin_. It is published in the _Clinique_
for this year (February, 1896).

Nor must we overlook a series of writers who have published isolated
observations of the cases of persons cured with _Tuberculin_. Such are
Drs. Lambreghts, Joussett, Zoppritz, Horace Holmes, Richardson, Young,
Clarke, Pinart, Youman, U. H. Merson, Snow, Lamb, Clarke, Ebersole, W.
James, Kunkel, A. Zoppritz, Steinhauf, Van den Berghe, &c.

Finally, for my own part, in my articles in _L'Art Médical_, published
three years ago, and in the _Hahnemannian Monthly_ (July, 1894), I have
insisted on homoeopathic action of the viruses of tuberculosis.

In certain of the pathogenesies of _Tuberculin_ we find thrown pell-mell
together symptoms appertaining to Koch's lymph, as well as others which
belong to the product baptized by several names, such as _Bacillinum_
and _Tuberculin_, in the recommendation of which Hering and Swan, and
Dr. J. Compton Burnett, in England, have made themselves conspicuous.

_Bacillinum_--since it must be distinguished from Koch's
_Tuberculin_--is a maceration of a typical tuberculous lung.[G] Koch's
lymph is an extract in glycerine of dead tuberculous bacilli. The former
is compound natural infection; the latter is a product of laboratory
experiment. In the one, various bacteriological species are associated
which give, clinically, an appearance of cachexia and of hectic fever;
from the other we may sometimes observe vascular, cardiac, renal changes
having no connection with the clinical "syndrome" of pulmonary
tuberculosis. To place these products together in the same pathogenesy
gives an absolutely wrong sense, and the fact that both contain Koch's
bacillus gives no excuse for confounding them. In my opinion there are,
from a homoeopathic point of view, distinct differences between
_Bacillinum_ and the Koch's lymph.

    [G] Dr. J. Compton Burnett, in his book, "New Cure for
    Consumption," p. 129, makes this remark: "The best way to get
    some really good _Bacillinum_ is to take a portion of the
    lung of an individual who has died of genuine bacillary
    tuberculosis pulmonum, choosing a good-sized portion from the
    parietes of the cavity and its circumjacent tissue, as herein
    will be found everything pertaining to the tuberculous
    process--bacilla, _débris_, ptomaines and tubercles in all
    its stages (such was practically the origin of the matrix of
    my _Bacillinum_) and preparing by trituration in spirit. In
    this way nothing is lost."

Experimentally Koch's bacillus, like many other microbes, does not
reproduce a clinical symptom-group; and we homoeopaths must have an
assemblage of clearly-defined symptoms before prescribing a poison on
homoeopathic principles. Such is unfortunately the case with many
other microbes in pure culture. The experimental diphtheria does not
resemble clinical diphtheria. The pneumococcus, pathogenetic of
pneumonia, is met with in many other diseases, such as pleurisy,
salpingitis, meningitis, etc. Koch's bacillus, too, sometimes remarkably
mild in its effects, and seeming to meet with no reaction in the system,
evolves aside as in the verrucous tuberculosis; while at other times
nothing is able to arrest the action of this terrible microbe, and the
world still waits in vain for the man who shall find the means of
combatting it. The toxins of tuberculosis are far from reproducing
clinical tuberculosis; yet even here we find a curious aspect sometimes
assumed by certain poisons drawn from the pure cultivation of microbes.
We cannot produce with _Tuberculin_ symptoms analogous to those of real
tuberculosis--as it is possible, for instance, to produce tetanus with
the toxine alone, _Tetanin_.

As a general rule, in the case of a healthy man, Koch's lymph would not
develop any reaction, its effects manifesting themselves in a febrile
congestion, which betrays the presence of tubercles. In our pathogeneses
(those of Mersch-Arnulphy), we note the following symptoms--"catarrhal
pneumonia with soft hepatisation, and tendency to abscess formation; at
post-mortems it is not a gelatinous or fibrinous exudation which oozes
out from the alveoli, but an opaque and watery fluid; 'never,' so says
Virchow, 'is there found the characteristic lesion of croupous
pneumonia.'" A pneumonia from which issues an aqueous and opaque
liquid! I confess I do not understand it.

Experimentally this same lymph of Koch gives symptoms of inflammation of
the arteries which are not found in clinical tuberculosis.

Animals inoculated with progressive doses of _Avian tuberculin_, or with
serum of tuberculous animals, undergo wasting and loss of appetite, and
other general symptoms. They may die of cachexia, or may develop an
isolated abscess; but they do not present characteristic symptoms as
they would under the action of _Cantharis_, of _Phosphorus_, or of
_Lead_.

Finally, inoculation with dead bacilli may produce real tuberculosis.

In the pathogenesy put forth by homoeopathists, pulmonary symptoms do
not occupy a prominent place. Dr. Burnett, who has experimented on
himself with _Bacillinum_, notes at the end of his symptoms, after the
headache, a slight and almost insignificant cough.

In explaining the clinical forms of infectious complaints, we are
frequently forced to admit the increasingly preponderant part played by
association of microbes--as it is the frequent case in diphtheria--and
especially the modifications which depend directly on the disposition of
the organ attacked, and not upon the action of the microbe itself.

An examination of the above considerations leads me to the following
conclusions:

1. That the importance of the materia medica of the tubercular virtues
ought not to be exaggerated. There are few characteristic symptoms to
take off; it is more wise to guide oneself in the homoeopathic
application of the therapeutics by the clinical symptoms of the
evolution of the various tuberculosis, rather than by the intoxication
produced by their active products, the _Tuberculins_.

2. Koch's lymph, _Bacillinum_ and _Avian tuberculin_ must be studied
separately, clinically as well as experimentally. _Bacillinum_ presents
symptoms very different from those of _Avian tuberculin_, and
especially from those of Koch's lymph; and I intend to divide my remarks
into three parts, corresponding to these three substances, which have
actually become homoeopathic remedies.

       *       *       *       *       *

At the time of the introduction of the ever-memorable Koch's lymph,
there were included under the head of poisonings by this drug vascular
lesions, as I have mentioned above, acute arteritis, arterio-sclerosis,
changes in the vessels of the heart and the kidneys, and acute
nephritis. Apropos of acute nephritis, the supposition was that the
kidney became congested because of the presence in that part of certain
tubercular islets, and that the kidney responded, like the tuberculous
lung, under the influence of the _Tuberculin_, by acute congestion.

However this might be, these vascular lesions drew attention to the
homoeopathicity of Koch's lymph in nephritis. Dr. Jousset has
experimented in it with encouraging results, using homoeopathic
dilutions, in Bright's disease; and at the meeting of the Société
Homoeopathique Francaise on April 18, 1895, Drs. Tessier, Silva and
Jousset, father and son, mentioned the diminution of albumen in cases of
chronic and incurable nephritis, and the appearance of that substance in
acute cases.

Dr. Arnulphy, in a series of articles in the Chicago _Clinique_, which I
have read attentively, speaks favorably of Koch's lymph in
homoeopathic dilutions in cases of tuberculosis. Personally I have not
used it, and I am loth to pass judgment on observations recorded in
every good faith. I would merely remark to my honorable colleague that
Koch's lymph was used in our school in all the homoeopathic dilutions
possible at the moment of its far-resounding discovery--a fact which he
should know as well as myself. To mention only one instance--Drs. Simon,
V. L. Simon Boyer and Chancerel used the drug at the Hahnemann Hospital
in Paris at the time of the arrival in France of the first consignment
of lymph from Germany; and I am nearly certain that there is not at this
time a single country where homoeopathists have not used this remedy
in all the infinitesimal dilutions. Homoeopaths and allopaths have
actually taken pretty much the same side as regards the primitive
formula put forward by Koch (I am not now speaking of trials of new
tuberculins); and Dr. Arnulphy would be fortunate enough were he able to
revive its credit after its several years' oblivion as a cure of
tuberculosis.

Clinically this lymph of Koch has led to wonderful cures in lobular
pneumonia, for it produces pneumonia, broncho pneumonia, and congestion
of the lungs in the tuberculous patient. Its homoeopathic action would
thus appear more trustworthy than its isopathic, and Dr. Arnulphy makes
this remark: "I make bold to state that no single remedy in our materia
medica, not excepting _Ipecac_, _Iodine_, _Tartar emetic_, and even
_Phosphorus_, approaches the singular efficacy of _Tuberculin_ in
well-authenticated cases of that affection (broncho pneumonia, be it) in
the child, the adult, or the aged. Its rapidity of action in some cases
is little short of wonderful, and all who have used it in this line are
unanimous in their unbounded praise of its working."

The four cases quoted by Dr. Mersch (_Journal Belge d' Homéopathie_,
November, 1894, January and May, 1895) are very instructive:

The first is that of a member of the Dutch Parliament who had contracted
a pneumonia which reached a chronic stage. While undergoing a relapse
his expectoration assumed a rusty-red color, which color disappeared
completely in three days on treatment with _Tuberculin_ 30th.

The second case is that of a person who was seized, after an attack of
measles, with broncho-pneumonia. On the fifth day Dr. Mersch prescribed
_Tuberculin_ 6th. In a day or two the condition of the chest was
completely altered.

In the third case an old lady was likewise attacked with
broncho-pneumonia, together with digestive troubles, and was for a long
time in a serious state. After the lapse of a single night, which was a
rather distressing one, under the action of the remedy the amelioration
was great, and it was with difficulty that Dr. Mersch found a touch of
bronchitis in the very place where the day before he had heard nothing
but the tubular _souffle_. The prescription ran: _Tuberculin_ 6th, eight
packets of ten globules each, one to be taken every two hours.

Finally, in a fourth case, the patient was a lady of vigorous physique,
and twenty-five years of age, who had capillary bronchitis, combined
with the symptoms of angina pectoris. Dr. Mersch had once more had an
opportunity of viewing with astonishment the rapidity with which the
therapeutic action of _Tuberculin_ may be manifested in such cases.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Bacillinum_ deserves study from two points of view, isopathically in
the treatment of tuberculosis, homoeopathically in the treatment of
affections of the respiratory organs without tuberculosis. To fully
understand its action it is necessary to know with exactness its
composition. Dr. J. Compton Burnett has christened it _Bacillinum_,
because he recognized in its lower dilutions the presence of Koch's
bacilli. As a matter of fact, _Bacillinum_ contains in its elements
everything that a cavity of a tuberculous lung is capable of containing;
that is to say, many other things besides Koch's bacillus. The bacillus
of Koch is feebly pyogenetic, and the purulent contents of the cavities
include pyogenetic staphylococci and streptococci, to say nothing of the
organic products which play a large part in the production of the hectic
fever of tuberculosis. It is a combination of toxins, then, which
constitutes _Bacillinum_, and especially of toxins of a purulent nature.
I lay stress upon this last fact, as it goes to sustain the opinion that
I hold on the action of _Bacillinum_.

The infinitesimal dose of Homoeopathy is in no way inimical to the
entrance of all the elements constituting a substance into its materia
medica. The salts of potassium owe their effect to their base as well
as to their acid; _Graphites_ is analogous to _Carbo_ and _Ferrum_,
because it contains both carbon and iron; _Hepar sulphuris calcareum_
acts by reason of its sulphur as well as of its lime. _Bacillinum_,
then, combines in its action all its constituent products, owing its
efficacy to its suppurative microbes as well as its inclusion of Koch's
bacillus.

This method of viewing the matter, which is peculiar to myself, permits
me to include in one and the same category the action of _Bacillinum_ in
consumption and its action in non-tuberculous bronchitis.

I have studied conscientiously the action of _Bacillinum_ in
tuberculosis, and I must confess that I am looking out still for an
authentic case of cure by this remedy. Nevertheless, in the midst of the
paucity of drugs for the treatment of tuberculosis, I am happy to state
that _Bacillinum_ has produced in my hands considerable amelioration of
the symptoms of this disease. Perhaps in certain cases it produces what
Bernheim would call "la treve tuberculeuse." But sooner or later the
drug, after ameliorating the symptoms, loses its effect, and the disease
again gets the upper hand. I wish I could be as optimistic as Dr. J.
Compton Burnett in his interesting book, "A New Cure for Consumption;"
but that is impossible.

In looking over my observations I find that the symptom which has always
undergone the greatest mitigation has been the _expectoration_. When
_Bacillinum_ acts on tuberculosis the sputum is less abundant, less
purulent, less green, and more a[=e]rated. It is this which has always
struck me most in the action of _Bacillinum_. It is rarely that a
patient satisfied with the remedy fails to remark, "I expectorate less."
In cases of dry cough at the beginning of tuberculosis I have noticed
that the drug evidently arrests the tubercular process.

I would most severely criticise, as well for myself as for others, cases
of so-called "cure of tuberculosis." There certainly are persons in whom
the disease does not develop. These may have been accidentally
infected, and their phagocytes may have struggled against their microbe
foe. But in the case of an individual in whom the tubercle finds a
suitable field for development, it is the merest chance that he entirely
recovers without ulterior relapse; mostly it is a seeming cure, caused
by a time of pause in the microbian pullulation.

Last year I had under my care, at the Hospital St. Jacques, a truly
extraordinary case. It has been followed out by Dr. Jousset, by Dr.
Cesar, head of the hospital laboratory, and by the house-physicians. It
was that of a woman who entered the hospital suffering from influenza,
and who, a few days after a slight amelioration of her symptoms, was
attacked with a pulmonary congestion, clearly localized in the top of
the left lung, and accompanied by all the clinical symptoms of
tuberculosis--râles and moist crepitation, dulness, exaggeration of the
thoracic vibration, nummular expectoration, fever, perspiration,
spitting of blood--everything was there. Examination of the sputa showed
distinctly the presence of Koch's bacilli. Everyone at the hospital
diagnosed tuberculosis, myself the first. I gave her _Avian tuberculin_
and in three weeks all the symptoms had disappeared. That woman left the
hospital completely cured, and _a year afterwards_ her health was still
perfect. In my opinion this patient never had consumption; she was
attacked with pseudo-phymic bronchitis, a complication which is very
often found with influenza, and which may very easily be mistaken for
tuberculosis; and in spite of the presence in the sputa of Koch's
bacillus I would not register it as a case of tuberculosis, because, in
contradistinction to that single case, I could mention twenty cases of
tuberculosis whose symptoms neither _Avian tuberculin_ nor any other
such drug has cured.

There is absolutely no connection between the clinical evolution of real
tuberculosis and observations based on the autopsies of old persons
whose lungs contain cavities, but whose death was not due to
tuberculosis. To admit, with Professor Brouardel, that three-fourths of
those who have died a violent death are possessed of tuberculous
lesions, whose existence was not suspected while the subject was living,
would be running absolutely counter to clinical experience. The time is
probably at hand when the different kinds of tuberculosis will be
distinguished and separated, as we distinguish and separate the varieties
of serious pleurisy and purulent pleurisy, of broncho-pneumonia arising
from the presence of pneumococci, of streptococci, or of staphylococci.
Malassez has already described cases of pseudo-tuberculosis, or
zoogleic-tuberculosis, whose existence has only been acknowledged of
late years. Courmont has discovered a pseudo-bacillosis of a bovine
origin. We have a pseudo-bacillosis of a strepto bacillar origin, not to
mention the "professional" tuberculoses, such as that to which persons
are exposed who have to breathe the fumes of charcoal.

To return to _Bacillinum_, I consider this remedy as a powerful
moderator of the muco-purulent secretion of consumption. While
diminishing the secretion it modifies the auscultation; there is less
thick sputum, the cavities are drier, the peri-tuberculosis congestion
less intense. The clinical symptoms follow those of the auscultation; as
the patient expectorates less he is less feeble, coughs less, gains
strength, and regains his spirits; but the tubercle remains untouched.
The peri-tuberculous congestion only is diminished, as one may observe
with the naked eye when Koch's lymph is employed in the amelioration of
lupus. The peri-tuberculous inflammation disappears; the skin seems
healthy, but the yellow tubercle remains as it was, and the patient is
still uncured. Such are the limits I assign to _Bacillinum_ in its
action on consumption.

Far more potent is the part played by _Bacillinum_ in non-tuberculous
pulmonary affections, for the simple reason that the struggle is with a
less redoubtable opponent. Ebersole, Young, Zoppritz, Burnett, James,
Holmes, Jousset, Steinhauf have published cases of the cure of acute
bronchitis, influenza diarrhoea, syphilitic eruptions, cystitis,
ringworm of the scalp, nephritis, idiocy, retarded dentition, cretinism,
gout, rheumatism, etc., with _Tuberculin_ or _Bacillinum_.

If we wish to prescribe _Bacillinum_ successfully in non-tuberculous
affections, we must observe, on auscultation, symptoms analogous to
those which are perceptible in tuberculosis. The peculiar
characteristics which indicate _Bacillinum_ for non-tuberculous maladies
of the respiratory organs are, in my opinion, the two following: The
first is _oppression_; the second, _muco purulent_ expectoration. These
two phenomena show themselves always in the last stage of tuberculosis;
that is to say, together with the products contained in the preparation
of _Bacillinum_. _Dyspnoea resulting from bronchial and pulmonary
obstruction caused by a super-abundant secretion from the mucous
membrane is marvellously relieved by Bacillinum._ I put forward this
fact, not on the evidence of a single isolated observation, but on that
of several cases conscientiously studied. Such expectoration leads to
the auscultation of sub-crepitant râles, sounding liquid and gurgling,
having some analogy to the moist sounds of tuberculosis.

This power of _Bacillinum_ to relieve oppression in pulmonary catarrh is
in no way surprising from the point of view of the law of similars; for
in the acute and infectious stage of tuberculosis the dyspnoea is a
characteristic symptom, and is far more distressing than the cough. I
have read with pleasure in the work of Dr. Mersch, of Brussels, on
_Tuberculin_, of a fact which corroborates my statement as to the
influence of _Bacillinum_ over catarrhal dyspnoea. After the sixth
dose the patient, who was suffering from bronchial asthma, was seized
with violent intercostal pains, with augmented cough; but the oppression
entirely disappeared after the first day, and did not return even three
months after the treatment had ceased.

In _L' Art Médical_ of January, 1894, and in the _Hahnemannian Monthly_
of July, 1894, I published the case of an old man of eighty years of
age, suffering from broncho-pneumonia, who, in the last stage of
asphyxia, had been saved by _Bacillinum_. Two years ago I was called
upon to treat another octogenarian who, as the result of a cold,
developed an obstruction in the bronchial tubes, and at the basis of the
lungs. He passed sleepless nights in a sitting posture, striving to draw
deep inspirations. _Phosphorus_, _Arsenic_, and _Stibium_ produced no
relief. I gave him _Bacillinum_ 30th, and he slept the whole night
through. Doses of this remedy, administered _at longish intervals_,
always produced a remarkable amelioration. Last year I was called to the
house of an upholsterer. He preferred not going to bed at all to passing
the night in bed without closing his eyes. He had humid asthma with
incessant cough, which ended by causing him to eject thick yellow and
puriform mucus. For eight days he took _Arsenic_ and _Blatta_, and for a
whole week he passed the nights without sleeping. From the day he took
_Bacillinum_ he was able to sleep. I saw him again this year in good
health. Once or twice he was attacked with the same bronchorrhea, and
had my prescription made up at the chemists, with the same success. This
year, too, I have given _Bacillinum_ to several patients at the Hôpital
St. Jacques for the same symptoms, and it has never yet failed me.

When I am called upon to treat a patient suffering from an obstruction
of the bronchial tubes occasioned by mucus, which is frequently thick
and opaque and puriform--an obstruction extending to the delicate
bronchial ramification, and causing oppression more frequently than
cough, I turn my thoughts at once to _Bacillinum_. _Bacillinum_ is a
drug for old people, or, at any rate, for those whose lungs are old; for
those chronically catarrhal, or whose pulmonary circulation is enfeebled
without regard to the age of the subject; for those who have dyspnoea,
and who cough with difficulty from inaction of the respiratory ducts;
for the humid asthmatic, the bronchorrheal, who feel suffocated at
night; and, finally, for those who, after taking cold, are straightway
attacked with pulmonary congestion. Here, I believe, is the exact
sphere of action of _Bacillinum_ as a homoeopathic remedy.

_Bacillinum_ has been stigmatized as an unstable product. I consider
this reproach ill-founded. _Bacillinum_ is no more unstable than
_Psorinum_, which is an approved remedy in Homoeopathy. Typical
tuberculous lungs contain practically almost invariable elements. Do not
the microbes produced by cultivation and the animal extracts show any
variation in quality, and do they not change in the long run?

Like most homoeopathists who have made use of _Bacillinum_, I think it
is best given in the high dilutions and at long intervals. Dr. J.
Compton Burnett and Van der Berghe recommended the higher potencies--the
1000th, 100,000, etc., whereas I content myself with the 30th, which
satisfies every requirement. As regards the intervals which must elapse
between the doses, certain writers recommend from one to two weeks. In
acute cases I generally give six globules of _Bacillinum_ 30th every two
or three days; and in chronic cases of tuberculosis, etc., one dose
about twice a week.

We are no longer permitted to include in the same description the
tuberculosis of birds and that of mammals. Although the two bacilli, as
far as form and color are concerned, are absolutely identical, the
evolution of the two forms of tuberculosis presents characteristics so
different that we are forced to study them separately. At this day the
debate is a question of words, and experts discuss whether there are two
distinct genera or merely two different species.

It is this characteristic of non-transmissibility from mammals to birds,
and _vice versa_, which forms the chief difference between the two kinds
of tuberculosis. Strauss failed in his endeavor to inoculate a fowl with
tuberculosis by injecting fifty kilogrammes of tuberculous human sputa,
whereas the fowl, absolutely impervious to human tuberculosis, became
infected when treated with a very slight quantity of the avian
tuberculosis. The guinea-pig, so sensitive to the human microbe,
presented encysted abscesses when treated with the virus of birds; it
dies of cachexia, but never, as far as the naked eye can discern, of
generalized tuberculosis. Rabbits are more sensitive to the avian
infection. Dogs are absolutely refractory. The monkey, so delicate in
our climate, and which almost invariably perishes from tuberculosis, is
uninjured by inoculation from avian virus. The parrot is a remarkable
exception to the general rule; it is the only bird which resists avian
tuberculosis, while, on the other hand, it is sensitive to that of man.
Such facts as these irrefutably differentiate the two kinds of
tuberculosis.


  [H]            _Tuberculosis of Birds._     _Tuberculosis of Mammals._

  Aspect of        Extreme softness on        Human tuberculous
  cultures.        glycerine jelly or         growths are adherent,
                   on serum.                  hard and difficult to
                                              break up even with a
                                              strong platinum wire on
                                              glycerine jelly as well
                                              as on serum.

  Medium of        Transferred from a         Cultivation more difficult.
  cultures.        solid to a liquid
                   medium the bacillus
                   grows rapidly,
                   having the appearance
                   of rounded
                   grains.

  Temperature.     Develops at a              Ceases to develop at
                   temperature of 45° C.      temperatures under 41° C.

  Odor.            Somewhat sour.             More subtle and fresh odor.

  Duration.        Takes longer to develop,   Is with difficulty generated
                   and may remain             again at the end of six
                   for a year or              months. At the end of
                   thereabouts.               eight or ten months loses
                                              its vegetable character.

  Seat of the      In animals usually         In the lung, generally in
  tubercles.       on the liver, the          men, and in certain animals;
                   spleen, the intestines,    in the spleen, the
                   and the peritoneum.        liver, and the glands in
                                              rabbits and guinea-pigs.

  Transmissibility.
                   Only from one bird         Mammals are unaffected by
                   to another, except         the tuberculosis of birds,
                   in the case of the         and _vice versa_.
                   parrot.

    [H] I have tabulated shortly their various characteristics.

Ever since this variety of tuberculosis has been distinguished,
attempts have been made to inoculate or cure human tuberculosis with
that of birds. In our school the thing has been attempted at the Hôpital
St. Jacques, where _Aviaire_ has been administered in homoeopathic
dilutions, in potions or through punctures in cases of consumption. As a
matter of fact, neither allopaths nor homoeopaths have succeeded in
obtaining a formula which will cure consumption with the virus of birds.
Amelioration has been noted as with other remedies, but never a series
of authenticated cures. Nevertheless, in every country experiments are
continually being made; we must hope that they will end in a more
decisive success than is at present the case.

Hoping to profit by the homoeopathicity of an active virus, I was, I
think, one of the first who employed _Aviaire_ in non-tuberculous
respiratory affections on the lines of _Bacillinum_, and I am bound to
say that up to the present my faith in the law of similars has not been
shaken by my experiments.

In _L'Art Médical_ (August, 1895) I published a number of cases in which
I successfully treated localized bronchitis, generally the result of
influenza, and reproducing the symptoms of tuberculosis, with _Aviaire_.
The most characteristic of all these observations is that of which I
have spoken above. The patient was restored to health as if by magic
with _Aviaire_ within three weeks. Dr. P. Jousset, anticipating my
observations, thus expressed himself in the number of _L'Art Médical_
preceding the one which contained my remarks: "A young woman entered the
Hôpital St. Jacques at the end of January, 1895, with feverish
influenzal bronchitis. At first the patient was treated with small doses
of _Sulphate of Quinine_, and a little later she took _Ipecac_ and
_Bryonia_ alternately. The fever disappeared and the general condition
improved considerably, and the sub-crepitant râles became confined to
the top of the left lung. The patient continued to expectorate thick
nummular and puriform sputa, as in the influenza. After some days the
disease resumed its sway, the bodily forces diminished, the emaciation
made great progress, and local and general signs indicated rapid
consumption. Bacteriological analysis led to the detection of numerous
Koch's bacilli. I gave over the case at this time, and some weeks
afterwards I learnt with surprise that the patient was well and growing
fat, and that the inoculation of the sputa had produced no effects. The
cure has been maintained for three months, and the young woman has
resumed her employment." I had prescribed _Aviaire_ 100th, five drops a
day, during the whole period of the disease, unaccompanied by any other
remedy.

As I have said before, more than a year afterwards the young woman
continued in good health.

Following this case, Dr. Jousset quoted two analogous instances in his
practice, both of influential bronchitis, in which the sputa contained,
for a certain period, Koch's bacillus. One was cured with _Aviaire_ 6th
and strong doses of _Sulphate of Quinine_, and the other with _Aviaire_
6th and twenty drops of _Tincture of Drosera_, a day.

"What conclusions must I draw from these facts?" says Dr. Jousset. "That
the avian tuberculosis cured the consumption? I have failed too often in
the treatment of ordinary consumption with this remedy to admit that."
That is my opinion also.

Koch's bacillus has been found in the nasal secretions of healthy
hospital nurses, and of students of medicine, as noted by Strauss. Would
it not be possible to come across it accidentally in certain kinds of
expectoration, just as the pneumococcus is found in saliva?

In one of the numbers of _La Médecine Moderne_ of last year there
appeared a short article on the "Influenzas known as pseudo-phymic." The
writer remarked on the strong analogy which certain complications of
pulmonary influenza presented to acute tuberculosis. He observed, among
other forms: 1st, the influenzal bronchitis which affected one of the
summits of the lung, the most difficult form to diagnose from
tuberculosis; 2d, the broncho-pneumonic form; 3d, the pleuro-pneumonic
form, bearing a close resemblance to tuberculous pleurisy. I might
remark that this last form is still little known and ill-defined. The
influenza microbe always imitates to a remarkable degree the microbe of
tuberculosis in certain instances; and if we wish to effect a cure on
the laws laid down by Hahnemann in certain forms of influenzal
bronchitis, we must frequently seek for the simillimum in the virus of
tuberculosis.

I have mentioned oppression as one of the characteristics of
_Bacillinum_. Now influenzal bronchitis is markedly accompanied by an
incessant cough and by grave general symptoms. There is more frequently
acute than passive, obstructive and dyspnoeic congestion. I am
inclined to prefer _Aviaire_ to _Bacillinum_ in such cases, and I should
like to briefly touch upon certain cases in my practice.

I have under my care a little girl of twelve years of age who has for
two years developed an influenza which rapidly leads to pulmonary
symptoms, always distinctly localized in the top of the left lung. The
mother is tuberculous, and the child, who was born with forceps, has her
left chest less developed than her right. The congestion which
accompanies the influenza is sudden and severe; within twenty-four hours
the lung is invaded, and fine râles are soon heard. Twice running, at
intervals of a year, _Aviaire_ 100th has stifled the symptoms in a few
days. I have seen an analogous case, only with congestion of the base of
the lung.

In my clinical report of the Hôpital St. Jacques (in August, 1895) I
note ten cases of acute influenzal bronchitis with incessant cough,
fever, and expectoration, rapidly cured with _Aviaire_. This year I have
prescribed it with the same success as at the Hôpital St. Jacques in
cases of influenzal bronchitis, with active congestion. I will mention
two cases of the pulmonary complications of measles which were rapidly
dissipated by this remedy; but I must also mention a third case of
measles in which _Aviaire_ failed and _Bryonia_ proved successful. The
child had an acute rubeolic laryngitis, and few pulmonary symptoms.
_Bryonia_ was in this case more decidedly indicated than _Aviaire_.

The dilution of _Aviaire_ which I have always used is the 100th. I give
usually five drops a day.

It seems that _Aviaire_ does not act in diminishing the cough like an
anodyne or a narcotic, but braces up the whole organism. The relief of
debility and the return of appetite are the phenomena which I have
observed in conjunction with the diminution of the cough.

I have given _Aviaire_ 100th for weeks, and even for a month, regularly
every day, without having observed excitement or aggravation. It would
thus appear to be a remedy of long-lasting action, capable in certain
cases of modifying the organism, and of bracing a constitution which has
become enfeebled from the effects of influenza or of suspicious
bronchitis.

In contrast with _Bacillinum_ I have noted, in my observations on
_Aviaire_, considerable cough and little dyspnoea--an acute
inflammatory, extremely irritating cough, such as one meets with in
acute diseases or sub-acute affections in young people; a cough which
fatigues, and which leads to enfeeblement and loss of appetite--in a
word, a suspicious cough. To conclude my remarks, the utility of
_Aviaire_ in _suspicious bronchitis_--an expression on which I again lay
stress--I will recall certain indubitable examples of the cure (at the
Hôpital St. Jacques) of bronchitis or of pulmonary congestion at the top
of one of the lungs, or of bronchitis on one side only, or of congestion
predominating on one side. These localizations on one side are
sufficiently grave symptoms to warrant apprehension of the hatching of
tuberculosis.

If I were myself attacked, as the result of influenza or measles, or of
some weakening malady, with an incessant tickling and stubborn cough,
with certain closely localized pulmonary symptoms; if I lost my strength
and appetite; if, in a word, I were attacked by bronchitis whose upshot
was highly doubtful, and which caused apprehension of tuberculosis, I
should not hesitate a single moment, with the examples which I have had
before me, to try _Aviaire_ 100th upon myself.

Such is the conclusion of my clinical observations made at Hôpital St.
Jacques in August, 1895.

What I said last year I can only repeat with renewed confidence in this;
and I hope that the years which follow will not cause me to alter my
opinion.


BELLIS PERENNIS.

NAT. ORD., Compositæ.

COMMON NAMES, English Daisy. Garden Daisy. Hens and Chickens.

PREPARATION.--The fresh plant, in flower, is pounded to a pulp and
submitted to pressure. The expressed juice is then mixed with an equal
part by weight of alcohol.

     (The following is from Thomas' _Additions to the
     Homoeopathic Materia Medica_, 1858. To it we may add
     Dr. J. C. Burnett's statement that _Bellis_ is a remedy
     for all ills that may be traced to a sudden wetting when
     overheated.)

_Bellis perennis_ or daisy, formerly called _consolida_, on account of
its vulnerary properties; the roots and leaves were used in wound
drinks, and were considered efficacious in removing extravasated blood
from bruises, etc. It is said to be refused by cattle on account of its
peculiar taste. Lightfoot, in his _Flora Scotica_, says: "In a scarcity
of garden-stuff, they (daisies) have, in some countries, been
substituted as pot herbs." My first trial with this plant as a curative
agent was in the autumn of 1856. While on a visit in the neighborhood of
Bangor, a countryman, understanding that I was a "doctor," wished me to
prescribe for his foot, which he had sprained very badly. Not having
either _Arnica_ or _Rhus_ with me, I determined to try the effects of
the daisy; so directed him to procure a handful of the leaves and
flowers of the plant, chop them up small, boil them for a quarter of an
hour in half a pint of water, and apply them in linen as a poultice
round the ankle at night. The application was not made until the next
morning, but in half an hour's time the ankle admitted of very fair
motion. A piece of calico wetted and wrung out of the daisy water was
then wrapped round the ankle, and the man put his shoe on and limped
about all day, walking not less than five miles. He repeated the
poultice at night, and found his ankle so much restored in the morning
that he was able to walk four miles to his work without experiencing any
difficulty. The success, in this instance, so far exceeded the previous
use of _Arnica_ and _Rhus_, especially in the time gained, that I had a
tincture from the whole plant made for such uses, and have used it in
sprained ankle from a fall--the ankle was well the second day. A sprain
of the wrist, which had been a week ailing, yielded to the daisy in
three days. I have also successfully used it in several severe whitlows;
in every case the pure tincture was used externally. The only provings I
have made with this remedy have been with the pure tincture in ten or
twenty drop doses at a time. After taking the medicine for fourteen days
without any symptoms, I suspended the use of it--in two weeks after
leaving it off, for the first time in my life I had a large boil on the
back of my neck (right side), commencing with a dull aching pain; some
difficulty and a bruised pain in keeping the head erect; slight nausea,
want of appetite, and a little giddiness in the head at times. Pain in
middle finger of the left hand, as of a gathering, for a short time
only; and at the same time pain in inner side of left forearm, as of a
boil developing; two nights before similar pains in corresponding parts
of the right arm--query, are these effects of _Bellis_ (this was written
December 11, 1856). The boil on the neck came December 7, 1856; began as
a slight pimple with burning pain in the skin, increasing until in six
days' time it was very large, of a dark fiery purple color, and very
sore burning and aching pain in it, accompanied with headache, extending
from occiput to sinciput, of a cold aching character; brain as though
contracted in frontal region, dizziness, etc. (as before stated). I now
set to work to cure myself, which by use of hot fomentations and lint
dipped in [Greek: theta] tincture of _Belladonna_ externally, taking at
the same time 3d dil. _Belladonna_ internally, was soon accomplished.
Three days after this was cured, another made its appearance, which
speedily succumbed to the same remedies. As I had never previously had a
boil, and had not made any change in my diet, I suspected _Bellis_
tincture to be the cause of the trouble. On the 12th of January, 1857,
feeling my left foot somewhat strained after running, I applied _Bellis_
[Greek: theta] to the strain, which for several days aggravated the
feeling; and in five hours after the application I had another small
boil (three weeks after disappearance of the last), which yielded to
same treatment as the others, by January 19, 1857. On March 7, 1857, I
chewed some daisy flowers. On the 11th, a small boil appeared at the
angle of the inferior maxilla, right side; _Belladonna_ [Greek: theta],
externally, cured it. The last trial I made with the third centesimal
dilution of _Bellis_, taking three drops on Tuesday, 2d March, 1858, on
the following Friday a small pimple appeared a little behind the angle
of _left_ inferior maxilla; it increased very much in size and pain by
Saturday, when I treated it with _Belladonna_ [Greek: theta] externally,
to which it soon yielded. As at no other time in my life have I suffered
from boils, I am inclined to think these are due to the use of the
daisy.


BERBERIS AQUIFOLIUM.

NAT. ORD., Berberidaceæ

COMMON NAMES, Oregon grape. Mountain grape.

PREPARATION.--The fresh root and stem is pounded to a pulp and macerated
in two parts by weight of alcohol.

     (This unintentional proving was published in August,
     1896, under the signature J. d. W. C. The paper referred
     to by J. d. W. C. was a clipping from the _Eclectic
     Medical Journal_.)

In the _Homoeopathic Recorder_ for March, 1896, p. 133, there appears
an interesting article on the virtues of the plant named above--it
starts out with: "From the fact that it will make a 'new' man of an old
one in a short time it is an excellent remedy."

As I am now over sixty years old, it seemed high time to cast about for
something possessing the virtue specified, viz., making "a 'new' man out
of an old one"--and to my knowledge, as I have never had five days'
illness confining me to bed, or even to my room, during the said sixty
years, I considered myself an easy subject for the contemplated
rejuvenation; besides all this, I am what some would call a
homoeopathic "crank;" and believed, and yet believe, if there be
anything that can effect such a transformation it is to be found only
within the lines of Homoeopathy, I immediately ordered quantum suf. of
the article in question from the celebrated firm of Boericke & Tafel,
and started out on the trip to the "Fountain of Youth" in full
confidence that _something_ would come of it.

The first day I took two doses mother tincture 10-15 drops each; no
special effect noticed--no youthfulness either! Second day, ditto; third
day, one dose in morning; after bank hours went to friend's sanctum and
engaged in a game of chess, and while so engaged felt a growing sense of
nausea and thick-headedness--so much so, that I was obliged to excuse
myself and hurry to my own quarters. _Berberis_, however, did not once
occur to me--I had scarce reached my room when the sense of nausea
(seven minutes' lively walk, since it became really oppressive) had
_full sway_, and having eaten nothing whatever since the previous
evening (as I do not eat unless I am hungry) the straining was rather
severe, but exactly similar to some previous attacks of
"biliousness"--in feeling, and color and taste of discharges--and still
_Berberis_ did not occur to me; as soon as the strain was over I was
seized with a remarkable and peculiar headache; a thing of which I have
no recollection whatever to have previously experienced in any
shape--the sensation was that of a strong, well-defined, compressive
band of iron (or some unyielding substance), about two inches wide,
passing _entirely round the head, just above the ears_--it kept on
growing tighter and tighter; I jumped from the reclined position on a
couch, wet a folded towel in cold water, and passed it round my head so
as to cover the "band;" but it gave little relief; about 10 o'clock I
began to think over what I might have eaten to disagree with me so, and
at last _Berberis_ came plump into sight; I at once prepared a cup of
strong, strong coffee (Hahnemann's antidote, and for which I had to send
to a neighbor), believing it would antidote the _Berberis_ (or rather
hoping it might), and about 12 o'clock there was a slight diminution of
pressure; then more coffee, black and strong, two or three mouthfuls,
and again laid down; by morning the serious phase of the headache had
disappeared, but I was exceedingly tremulous in nerves and unsteady in
gait up to noon, when I ventured on some oatmeal and syrup--habitually,
I do not eat meat, or drink tea or coffee, nor spirituous liquors, nor
use tobacco, and have not for over thirty years.

Finally, I "made a good recovery," and now whenever I have a sensation
of biliousness I touch my tongue to my finger after touching the cork of
the mother tincture bottle of _Berberis aqui._; with laid finger--and
have no trouble compared to what I have usually had--I believe I may
say, I am subject to bilousness by heredity, but it has removed much
thereof, and this remedy, I think, is good enough for the remainder.


BLATTA ORIENTALIS.

SYNONYM, Indian cockroach.

CLASS, Insecta.

ORDER, Orthoptera.

COMMON NAME (Indian), Talápoka.

PREPARATION.--Triturate in the usual way.

     (These two papers are by Dr. D. N. Ray, of Calcutta,
     India, and were originally published in the
     _Homoeopathic Recorder_ in the years 1890 and 1891. A
     number of papers from American physicians could be added
     confirming what Dr. Ray says of the drug.)

The _Blatta orientalis_ is a common insect in India, where it is found
abundantly in the dwelling houses. It has rather a flat body, from an
inch to a couple of inches in length; deep brown color. It can fly a
short distance. The wings reach beyond the body and cover it completely;
the feet have several segments and are provided with prickles.

Preparation.--The live animal is crushed and triturated as under class
IX of American Homoeopathic Pharmacopoeia, a tincture can be
prepared as under class IV of the same Pharmacopoeia.

This new unknown remedy has a curious anecdote connected with it. I call
it new because it has not been mentioned in any of our medical works,
although the use of _Blatta Americana_ (American cockroach) as a remedy
for dropsy has been mentioned in journals. The Indian cockroach is used
not in cases of dropsy but in cases of _Asthma_, a most obstinate
disease to deal with. In asthma it acts almost specifically. Before I
further proceed to give an account of this new, invaluable drug I shall
narrate here a short story how it came into use.

Some years ago an elderly gentleman had long been suffering from asthma;
for over twenty years. He took all measures and tried different methods
of both recognized and unrecognized medical treatments, but
unfortunately all proved in vain. At last he gave up all treatment and
was getting fits daily. He was brought to such a deplorable condition
that he was left to suffer. He was in the habit of taking tea. One
afternoon as usual he drank his cup of tea--afterwards he noticed that
his oppression in the chest was much less and that he was feeling
unusually better, so much so that he felt himself a different being.
This led him and his friends to inquire into the cause of it. He
immediately inferred that the relief was due to the drinking of the
_tea_, although he habitually drank the same tea but never before had
experienced any such changes. So this change he attributed to something
in the tea. The servant who prepared the tea was sent for and
questioned. His reply was that he made the tea as usual and there was
nothing new in it. The residue of the teacup was carefully examined,
nothing was found there, but on examining the tea-pot a dead cockroach
was discovered. So it was concluded that this _infusion_ of cockroach
did the gentleman a world of good. The very day he drank that _cup of
tea_ he had hardly any fit of asthma at night, and in a few days he got
entirely well to his and his friends' surprise.

The accounts of his Providential recovery were communicated to some of
his friends--one of them, not a medical man, but quite an enterprising
gentleman, took this into his head and resolved to try whether cockroach
does any good to other asthmatic patients. For this purpose he got a lot
of cockroaches, put them alive into a quantity of boiling water and
mixed it after filtering the water when cool with almost the same
quantity of the rectified spirit of wine, so that it might last for some
time without getting soured. This new mixture (or tincture) he began to
try in each and every case of asthma that he came across. The dose was a
drop each time, 3 or 4 doses daily, and more frequently during the fits
of asthma. Within a short time he made some such wonderful cures that
people began to flock from different parts of the country to his door.
Soon the number of attendants was so great that he had to manufacture
the medicine by pounds and all this medicine he distributed to patients
without any charge. He has records of some of the cases.

Some two years ago a patient of mine asked me whether we make any use of
_Talápoka_ (cockroach) in our Pharmacopoeia. My reply was that we use
many loathsome insects as our remedial agents. I told him also that
_Blatta Americana_ (American cockroach), I had heard, had been used in
cases of dropsy, but I had no practical experience with it. He then said
the Indian cockroach is used in cases of asthma and he knew several
cases had been cured with it. This struck me and I determined to try
this in cases of asthma whenever next opportunity occurred. For this
purpose I got a lot of live cockroaches, killed them and pounded to a
fine pulp and triturated according to class IX of American
Homoeopathic Pharmacopoeia, that is, two parts by weight of the
substance and nine parts by weight of sugar of milk, giving 1x
trituration. Thus I prepare up to 3x trituration and I also make an
alcoholic solution--a few live cockroaches were crushed and five parts
by weight of alcohol poured over them--it was allowed to remain eight
days in a dark, cool place, being shaken twice daily. After the
expiration of that period the alcoholic solution was poured off,
strained and filtered, when it was ready for use.

I began to try both the preparations--drop doses of the tincture and
grain doses of 1x, 2x and sometimes 3x, 3 or 4 times daily when there
was no fit and almost every fifteen minutes or half hourly during the
severity of a fit. Both preparations began to answer well and I was
getting daily more and more encouraged about the efficacy of this new
drug. I had the opportunity of trying quite a number of cases of asthma
within this short time, the reports of which I wish to publish in the
future, but for the present I am glad to say in many cases it acted
almost specifically, that is, the whole trouble cleared away within a
fortnight or so without recurrence. In some cases the severity of the
paroxysm was lessened and the recurrence of the fits took place at a
longer interval; in others again only temporary benefit was observed.
This failure to benefit all cases alike I attribute to many
circumstances. Some people did not, rather could not, take the medicine
regularly according to my directions owing to their untoward
circumstances; some persons were suffering from other complications
along with asthma; some again got temporary relief and in the meantime
discontinued the medicine and came back again when there was a
recurrence of the fits, that is, they did not continue the drug for
sufficient length of time. Some cases again, not having derived
immediate benefit, got impatient and discontinued the medicine without
proper trial.

Besides all these, I think individual idiosyncrasy has a great deal to
do. The season of the year has some influence. It is usually observed in
this country that those who are subject to periodical attacks of
asthmatic fits are more prone to an attack either during the full or the
new moon, or at both the times. I believe if it is properly watched this
fact will be evident all over the world. Same is true of some other
diseases, as chronic cough, chronic fevers, rheumatism, either acute or
chronic, gout, elephantiasis, other glandular enlargements, etc., get
aggravated or are prone to aggravation during such changes of the moon.
Then some people get more severe and frequent fits during the winter
than the summer and the others more during the summer than the winter.
Let me here tell you that the Indian summer is very different from
either the English or the American. Some part of the Indian summer
season is quite rainy and the atmosphere is saturated with moisture and
other irritating ingredients, consequently a class of asthmatic people
suffer more during this season. I noticed to this class of cases _Blatta
orientalis_ will prove most efficacious. I have used it in bronchial and
nervous asthma with better success than the stomachæ.

SECOND PAPER.

I have of late tried _Blatta orientalis_ indiscriminately in almost all
cases of asthma that have come under my treatment, and I am glad to say
I have received good results in most cases, as the reports of some of
the clinical cases will show. I have not come to any definite use of
this drug yet, but I shall only mention a few facts that I have observed
during its use. It acts better in low potency and repeated doses during
an attack of asthma; when the spasm subsides, the terminal asthmatic
cough with wheezing and slight dyspnoea, etc., is better relieved with
higher potencies; the low potency, if continued after the spasmodic
period is over, will make the cough more troublesome and harassing to
the patient and the expectoration tenacious, thick and very difficult to
raise, but this will not be the case if the potency is changed. I had
this difficulty in a few cases when I was less acquainted with the
action of the drug, but now I manage my cases better. In four patients
who continued the drug for some time in the low potency, during the
paroxysm and after it was over, the cough became dry and hacking with
little or no expectoration, the streaks of blood appeared in the sputa,
which the patients had never observed in the course of their long
illness. This appearance of blood in their sputa was the cause of a
great anxiety to them and made them hurry over to my office. On inquiry
I learned from two of them--one a lady and the other a young man--that
while taking this remedy they felt a sensation all over the body, for
four or five days previous to the appearance of the blood, as if heat
were radiating from the ears, eyes, nose, top of the head, palms of the
hands and soles of the feet. They attributed this sensation of heat all
over the body and the appearance of the blood in the expectoration to
the drug. I directed them to stop the medicine at once; this they did,
and with the discontinuance of it the blood disappeared from the sputa
as well as the sensation of heat, but to me it was an open question
whether this appearance of blood in the expectoration was due to
overdrugging, although I must say that the presence of the streaks of
blood in the sputa of asthmatic patients is not an uncommon phenomenon.
I resolved to give the same potency to the same patients after the
lapse of some days. I did so, and to my surprise the blood-streaked
sputa again appeared after they had taken the remedy ix, one grain four
times daily. From this the patients understood it was the same medicine
that had been given to them on the last occasion and begged me not to
give it again, as the appearance of blood in the sputum frightened them,
in spite of all my assurance. No more strong doses of the drug were
given to them and they did not notice any more blood in the sputum. I
have heard other patients complain of this peculiar sensation of heat
whenever strong doses were given to them for some time. It acts better
on stout and corpulent than on thin and emaciated persons. The asthmatic
patients subject to repeated attacks of malaria derive less permanent
benefit from the use of the drug. So, it seems to me, that in hæmic
asthma, which is due to the abnormal condition of the blood, it is
efficacious. I have also used this drug in troublesome cough with
dyspnoea of phthisical patients with good result.

CLINICAL CASES.

CASE I. Baln R. M., aged fifty-five, thin, emaciated and irritable
temperament, has been suffering from hereditary asthma for the last
twenty-five years. For the last six or seven years he suffered from
asthmatic fits almost nightly and a troublesome cough with a good deal
of frothy expectoration. He said he had not known what sleep was for the
last six or seven years, in fact, he could not lie down in bed, as that
would immediately bring on a violent fit of coughing which would not
cease until he sat up, so the recumbent posture for him was almost
impracticable, and he used to sit up during the night and doze on a pile
of pillows. He passed his days comparatively better, but the approach of
the night was a horror to him, his struggle, commencing at 9 or 10 P.M.,
would last till the morning. He was the father of many children and was
well taken care of, but his suffering was so great that he had no
ambition to live any longer. He tried almost all systems of medicine
without much good. For the last ten years he took opium, which afforded
him slight relief at the beginning, using as high as forty-eight grains
of opium in twenty-four hours. Owing to the constant sitting posture he
became stooped, and the back of his neck stiff and painful. In April,
1889, he was suddenly taken ill with fever. The fever became protracted.
After an illness of over a month his condition became so bad that all
hope of his recovery was given up. During this illness he was treated by
an old school physician of some repute, but his condition daily grew
worse, the asthmatic attacks became very violent and almost incessant,
and the difficulty of breathing very great. He became so feeble that he
had not strength enough to enable him to bring up the expectoration; his
chest was full of it; fever was less; there was general anasarca. He was
sitting with head bent forward, almost touching the bed, as that was the
only position possible to him day and night. He had become almost
speechless, when I was sent for, at about 3 P.M. on the 23d of May,
1889. When I was entering the patient's room a medical man came out and
hinted that there was no use of my going in as the patient was just
expiring. I found the patient breathing hard; unconscious; jaws were
locked and saliva dribbling from the corners of his mouth; body cold;
cold, clammy perspiration on forehead; eyes partially opened; in fact,
to all appearance, he looked as if he were dead, except for the
respiratory movements. I felt his pulse and found it was not so bad as
the patient was looking. I examined the back of his chest, as that was
the only portion easily accessible, and noticed that the bronchial
spasms were going on with loud mucous râle. From the character of his
pulse I thought that the present state of the patient was _probably_ due
to the continued violent struggle and not deep coma, and that he had
become so exhausted that he was motionless, speechless and completely
unconscious. His bed was surrounded by many friends and relations, who
had come to bid him a last farewell; and it was with surprise that they
all looked at me when I proposed to administer medicine to a patient
whose death was expected every minute and for whose cremation
preparations were being made.

I got a big phial full of water and put in it _Blatta orientalis_ 1x
trit. a few grains and tried two or three times to give him a spoonful
of it, but in vain; the jaws were locked and I could not make him
swallow any of that medicine; then I put some powder dry in the hollow
of his lips and asked the attendants to try to give him the medicine I
left in the bottle. I was asked whether there was any hope of his
recovery, of course my answer was "_no_," and I also said he could only
live a few hours. I left the patient's house with the idea of not
visiting it again, but at 9 P.M. a messenger came with the report that
the patient was slightly better, he could swallow medicine and two doses
of it had been given. I was asked to see the patient again. I could
hardly believe what he said, however, I went to see the patient again. I
noticed there was a slight change for the better, the pulse was steady,
the jaws were unlocked, there was mobility of the limbs, he could
swallow liquid with ease and was expectorating freely, the breathing
though still difficult was slightly improved. There was the winking of
the eyelids. On the whole he was looking less lifeless, but still I
entertained no hope of his recovery. I left instructions to repeat the
same medicine once or twice during the night, if required, at the same
time to give milk repeatedly, one or two spoonfuls at a time, and to
inform me next morning if he had survived the night. Next morning I
really grew anxious to know what had become of my patient who had shown
symptoms slightly better with this new remedy. A messenger came with the
report that the patient passed a good night. I was requested to see him
again. When I arrived at his place at 8 A.M. I was surprised to see him
so much better, he had not only regained his consciousness, but was
sitting quietly in his bed, could speak slowly, the difficulty of
breathing was completely gone, but the cough occasionally troubled him
and a good deal of expectoration of frothy white or sometimes of big
yellowish lumps of mucus came up. He was given three doses of the same
medicine 2x trit. during the day. He passed a fair day, but at night his
difficulty of breathing again appeared in somewhat milder form. He had
to take two doses of the medicine. Thus the medicine was continued for a
week and his trouble daily became less and less until after the
expiration of a week he was able to sleep at night for the first time in
the last six or seven years. I treated him over a month, and his health
improved so rapidly that he not only got rid of the asthmatic trouble,
but was soon able to go out and even attend his business. The stooped
condition of his neck with slight pain and slight chronic bronchitis did
not leave him altogether. Besides _Blatta orientalis_, I also prescribed
for him _Arsenicum alb. 6_ and _12_, _Naja tri. 6_, _Ipecac 3_, and
_Antim. tart. 3_, as they were indicated. He continued well for over a
year, but in August, 1890, he had slight reappearance of the asthmatic
trouble. He again took _Blatta orientalis_ and got well.

CASE II. Mrs. Nundy, a thin lady, aged twenty-three, mother of three
children, came from a village for the treatment of asthma, from which
she had been suffering for the last eight years. For the first two or
three years she used to get two or three attacks in the year, but
gradually they were repeated more frequently, though the character of
the attack remained the same throughout. It would last two days and two
nights, whether any medicine was given to her or not. Nothing would
alleviate her suffering during an attack--too much interference would
increase her sufferings and prolong the duration of the attack, so,
practically speaking, almost nothing was given to her during an attack.
The great oppression of breathing, restlessness, profuse perspiration,
inability to move or lie down and loud wheezing would be the most
prominent symptoms in each attack. These would remain almost with equal
violence for nearly forty hours, when the spasms would cease with slight
cough and expectoration, and she would be perfectly at ease as ever,
and there would be no trace of disease left, except slight wheezing
sound on auscultation. But latterly these attacks were very frequent,
almost every week or ten days. In August, 1890, she was brought here for
treatment. It is worth while to mention that she took both allopathic
and native drugs during the interval of attacks to prevent their
recurrence, but without any effect. I saw her first on the morning of
the 5th of August, during an attack. I prescribed _Blatta Orientalis_ IX
trit., one grain every two hours. It was to their surprise that this
attack subsided unlike all others by the evening; that is, it
disappeared within twenty hours. This encouraged the lady and her
husband so much that she wanted to have regular course of treatment
under me. I put her under tincture of _Blatta Orientalis_ IX, one drop
per dose, twice daily. She continued this medicine till the time of the
next attack was over; that is, for ten days. After the expiration of
this period she began to complain of a sensation of heat all over her
body, so I changed it to 3x, one drop morning and evening. She kept
well, and after a month she went home thinking she got well. A month
after her going home she had an attack of asthma at night and took
_Blatta Orientalis_ IX as before, and by the next morning she was well.
This was in October, and after two months of the last attack. She had
another attack in winter and none since.

CASE III. A young man, aged thirty-four, had been suffering from asthma
for some years. He was invariably worse during the rains and the winter,
and a chronic bronchitis was almost a constant accompaniment. He tried
allopathic and lots of patent drugs, with only temporary amelioration of
the trouble. At last, in November, 1888, he came to my office. On
examination of his chest I found there was a chronic bronchitis. He said
that slight difficulty of breathing with hacking cough used to trouble
him every night, besides a cold would be followed by a severe attack of
asthma, so its periodicity of recurrence was irregular. I treated him
with _Ipecac_, _Arsenicum alb._, etc. The first-named medicine did him
the most good, but he never got entirely well. So in July, 1889, I put
him under tincture _Blatta orientalis_ 3X, drop doses, three or four
times daily. Under its use he began to improve steadily, and had only
two or three attacks of asthmatic fits since he used this drug, which
were promptly relieved by the same drug in 1x potency. _Euphrasia off._
was prescribed for his cold whenever he had it. He is free from all
trouble for the last year and a half. His general condition is so much
changed that there is no apprehension of the recurrence of his former
illness.

CASE IV. Baln Bose, an old, corpulent gentleman, aged sixty-two, has
been suffering from asthmatic attacks for some years. He never took any
allopathic medicine, but had always been under treatment of native
kabiraj (medical men), under whose treatment he was sometimes better and
worse at others. Latterly he became very bad and passed several
sleepless nights. He used to pass his days comparatively better, and it
was at night and in the morning he used to be worse. On the 24th of
July, 1890, at 9 A.M. I saw him first--there was a slight touch of
asthma even then. I made him try to lie down in bed; this he could not
do, owing to the coughing fit it excited while in that posture. On
examination the chest revealed chronic bronchial catarrh, and there was
also a harassing cough, with very little expectoration after repeated
exertion. I prescribed _Blatta orientalis_ IX trit., one grain every two
hours. He passed the night without an attack, and the next morning when
I saw him he complained that only the cough was troublesome last night
and no fit of asthma. The cough was somewhat troublesome even when I saw
him in the morning. I gave him tincture _Blatta ori._ 3x, one drop dose
every two hours. He passed the day and night well. He continued the
treatment for a fortnight and then went home, where he has been keeping
good health, with the exception of an occasional bronchial catarrh.

CASE V. A shoemaker, aged forty-two, robust constitution, has been
suffering with asthma for three or four years. He came to my office on
the 6th of November, 1890. He had been getting asthmatic fits almost
every night since October last. During the day troublesome cough, with
slight expectoration and hurried breathing made him unable to attend his
business. Tincture _Blatta orientalis_ IX, one drop doses, six times
daily, was given. The very first day he perceived the good effect of the
medicine and continued the same for a month, when he got well and
discontinued the medicine. He has been keeping well ever since.

CASE VI. Mr. G., aged forty, healthy constitution, had an asthmatic fit
on the 4th of August, 1890, preceded by a violent attack of cold, from
which he frequently used to suffer. He had this severe cold in the
morning, and in the afternoon he began to experience a great difficulty
of breathing and slight oppression and lightness of the chest--this, by
9 P.M., developed into a regular fit of asthma. I was sent for. On my
arrival, at 10 P.M., I found he was sitting before a pile of pillows
with elbows supported on them, and struggling for breath. There was also
a great tightness in the chest, occasional cough, and inability to
speak. I at once put him under _Blatta orientalis_ IX trit., one grain
every fifteen minutes, and less frequently afterwards if he felt better.
On my visit next morning I found him much better, but he said his
trouble at night continued, more or less, till 2 A.M., after which he
got some rest. Now, there was a troublesome cough, slight oppression of
the chest and great apprehension of a second attack in the night. The
same medicine, 3x trit., was given to him during the day, and a few
powders of 1x were left with him in case he was to get an attack at
night. There was a slight aggravation of those symptoms at night, and he
had occasion to take only two powders of 1x. The next morning he was
every way better, except the cough, for which four powders of 3x were
given daily. In four or five days he got entirely well and had no
relapse.

CASE VII. Mrs. D., aged twenty, a healthy, stout lady, mother of one
child, had been always enjoying good health, was suddenly attacked with
a violent fit of asthma on the 8th of August, 1890. This was the first
occasion she had a fit of asthma, the result of a severe cold. At about
2 A.M. she was suddenly seized with difficulty of breathing and a great
oppression in the chest. She could not lie down any longer in bed and
had to sit up, being supported on a pile of pillows. In the morning at 8
A.M. I saw her first. I noticed she was in great agony and almost
speechless. On examination I could not detect much loud wheezing--the
characteristic of an asthmatic attack--though the rapid movements of the
walls of the chest were even quite visible to the bystanders. The
patient was feeling almost choked up, and could not express what was
going on. She only pointed out a point, a little over the pit of the
stomach most painful. There was no cough--perspiration was pouring over
her body. I could not at once make out whether it was a case of pure
asthma, especially as she never had it before. However, I made up my
mind to give her _Blatta orientalis_ IX trit., a grain dose every
fifteen minutes, and watch the effect myself. Three doses of it were
given without much change for the better. I left a few more doses to be
repeated half hourly and promised to see her again within a couple of
hours. On my return I found her in a much better condition, and she had
taken only one of those powders I had left, and they were not repeated,
as she felt better. Now I thought it must have been an attack of asthma,
and I continued the medicine unhesitatingly. There was no aggravation at
night, but on the next morning she was better, and the usual asthmatic
cough began with slight expectoration. There was pain in the chest and
head with each coughing fit. _Blatta orientalis_ 3x trit., four to six
doses, was continued for a few days, when she got well. Again in
November she had a slight tendency to an asthmatic fit, took two or
three doses of the same medicine and got well. Since then she had not
been troubled again.

CASE VIII. A gentleman, the keeper of a common shop, aged forty-four,
belonging to a village, had been suffering from asthma for the last
eight years and had always been under treatment of native kabiraj
(medical men). In June, he came to the city, and I was called to see him
on the 14th of June, to treat him for his asthma. The day previous he
had an attack, for which he took no medicine. Each of his attacks
usually lasted four or five days. I gave him _Blatta orientalis_ IX
trit., one grain every two hours, and left him six such powders to be
taken during the day. He took them and felt better the next day. He
stayed here two or three days more, and when well he wanted to proceed
home, which was some couple of hundred miles. He took with him two
two-drachm phials of _Blatta orientalis_, one of IX and the other of 3x
trit. He continued the 3x, one grain doses, two or three times daily,
for a month, and discontinued afterward. He had no more asthmatic fits.
In January last, 1891, I had a letter from him, thanking me for his
recovery and asking for some of the same medicine for a friend of his,
who had been suffering from asthma. The friend of his who used the same
drug, _Blatta orientalis_, was equally benefited.

CASE IX. Mrs. Dalta, a thin lady, aged thirty-eight, mother of several
children, had been exposed to cold, which brought on an attack of
bronchitis with fever. This, in the course of a fortnight, developed
into a regular fit of asthma. She was all this time treated by an
old-school physician, but when the husband of the lady saw that she was
daily getting worse, and a new disease crept in, he made up his mind to
change the treatment. I was called to see her in the morning of the 8th
of June, 1890. She became very much emaciated, could not take any food,
had fever with acute bronchitis, hurried respiration, difficulty of
breathing; this she was complaining of bitterly, owing to which she
could not lie down in bed, but had to sit up day and night. There was a
prolonged fit of spasmodic cough at short intervals, with slight
expectoration, but these coughing fits would make her almost breathless.
This was the first time I prescribed _Blatta orientalis_ IX in a case
of asthma with fever and acute bronchitis. It answered my purpose well.
She had only ten powders during the day and passed a comparatively
better night. Next morning when I saw her she was better, except the
coughing fits, which were continuing as before. The same medicine was
repeated. On the 10th of June she had no asthmatic trouble at night, but
there was not much improvement in her cough--_Anti. tart._ and _Bryonia_
were needed to complete the cure.


BOLETUS LARICIS.

NAT. ORD., Fungi.

COMMON NAMES, Larch Agaric, Larch Boletus, Purging Agaric, White Agaric.

PREPARATION.--The dried fungus is macerated in five parts by weight of
alcohol.

     (Here are two typical cases out of thirteen by Dr. W. H.
     Burt, which we find in the _North American Journal of
     Homoeopathy_, 1866, quoted from the _Medical Investigator_
     from a volume not attainable.)

CASE 1. Intermittent fever: Type Quotidiana Duplex. In a large lymphatic
woman; weight about 180 lbs.; aged thirty-nine. November 4th. For the
last five weeks has had the ague. At first it was a simple quotidian.
Took Quinine, which broke it for four days, when it returned; took
Quinine in massive doses, which checked it for one week. It returned two
weeks since, in the form of a double quotidian. The chill comes on every
day at 10 A.M. and 5 P.M.

The chill lasts from one to two hours each time; hands and feet get icy
cold, chills run up and down the spine, with severe pains in the head,
back and limbs; followed by high fever for three hours, and then profuse
sweat. Tongue furred whitish-yellow, with large fissures in the tongue;
flat, bitter taste; has had no appetite for five weeks; craves cold
water all the time; bowels rather costive; has nausea during every
chill, but no vomiting; very weak, can only sit up about one hour in the
morning; great depression of spirits, cries during the whole
examination; face very much jaundiced. Treatment: _Ars. 2_, every two
hours, for three days. It produced constant nausea and lessened the
chills, but aggravated the fever. I then determined to try the _Boletus_
1st, two grs. every two hours. Took two doses when the chills came on,
she then ceased to take the medicine until 5 P.M. Took three doses, and
then fell asleep. 8th. Says she is feeling a little better, continued
treatment; 10 A.M., commenced to have a severe diarrhoea, an effect of
the medicine; discontinued the powders until 5 P.M. The fever did not
come on until 3 P.M.; had no chill; fever lasted three hours; perspired
profusely all night; slept well for the first time in a number of weeks.
9th. Feeling much better. Fever came on at 4 P.M., had no chill; fever
lasted four hours; nausea all the evening; sweat all night. 10th.
Feeling quite well. Had no more fever, but had night sweats for a week
after. Convalescence was very slow; notwithstanding she had no more
fever it was three weeks before she felt perfectly well.

This case demonstrates the fact to us that the _Boletus_ is superior to
our _greatest remedial_ agents in the case of intermittents. I believe
if I had not been acquainted with the therapeutic properties of the
_Boletus_ I would have been compelled to treat this lady every few weeks
for two or three months with our usual remedies.

CASE 2. Intermittent fever: Type quotidian. November 1st, Mrs. B., aged
fifty-six. Temperament, nervous. Three weeks since had an abscess in
left ear, which made her quite sick for a week. Since then has had a
fever every afternoon and night; feels chilly whenever she moves;
walking produces nausea; does not perspire any; tongue coated white;
loss of appetite; bowels loose; very restless at night, cannot sleep
any; getting very weak, keeps her bed most of the time. Gave _Boletus
laricis_. Had the fever but one day after.


CALCAREA RENALIS PRÆPARATA.

PREPARATION.--There are two kinds of renal calculi, the phosphatic and
the uric, which should be triturated as separate preparations.

     (The _Homoeopathric Examiner_, 1846, contained the
     following paper, by Dr. Bredenoll. We may add that the
     remedy is reported to be peculiarly beneficial in Rigg's
     disease of the teeth.)

My professional engagements do not permit me to spend much time in
writing; the following case, however, I deem worthy of note.

Born of healthy parents, I remained quite healthy until my twenty-third
year. I had no trouble in getting over the diseases to which children
are generally liable. Some of them, scarlet fever and measles, attacked
me when I was already engaged in my professional career. I am now
fifty-seven years old.

In the year 1808, while vaccinating children, I caught the itch from one
of them. Although I washed myself with soap water immediately, yet a
pustule made its appearance in about eight days, between the little
finger and ring finger of the left hand; afterwards a few more came on
at the same place and some others between the ring and middle finger. I
hastened to repel this eruption as fast as possible, which I
unfortunately succeeded in doing within the period of eight days.

This suppression of the eruption was followed by a host of diseases:
Liability to catching cold; frequent catarrh; rheumatic complaints;
toothache; attacks of hemicrania, with vomiting; continual heartburn;
hæmorrhoidal complaints, at times tumors, at times fluent; excessive
emaciation; afterwards a pustulous eruption over the whole body; painful
swelling of the joints, arthritic nodosities in different places; a
copper-colored eruption in the face, especially on and about the nose,
which made me look like a confirmed drunkard, etc., etc.

These affections tormented me more or less, until in the year 1833 I
visited Hahnemann at Coethen, for the purpose of studying homoeopathia
with him. Hahnemann treated me for three weeks, and I continued the
treatment at my native place. My health improved steadily, and at the
end of a year I considered myself cured. This lasted until October,
1836, when I was attacked with violent colic in one night. The pain was
felt in the region of the left kidney, lancinating, pinching, sore;
retching ensued, resulting in vomiting of mucus, and lastly bile. I took
a few pellets of _Nux v._ x; after this the pain disappeared gradually,
and the vomiting ceased. Next day I was well again. Two days afterwards
I discovered gravel in the urine, and my sufferings had vanished.

One year elapsed in this way; however, I occasionally experienced an
uncomfortable sensation in the region of the left kidney, especially
when riding on horseback, driving in a carriage, or walking fast; I took
at times _Lycopod._, at times _Nux v._, in proportion as one or the
other of these two remedies appeared indicated.

In November, 1837, I was suddenly attacked with vomiting, accompanied
with violent lancinating, sore or pinching pains in the region of the
left kidney. The horrible anguish and pain which I experienced extorted
from me involuntary screams; I was writhing like a worm in the dust. A
calculus had descended into the ureter and had become incarcerated in
it. Repeated doses of _Nux_ relieved the incarceration, and I distinctly
felt that the calculus was descending towards the bladder. After
twenty-four hours of horrible suffering the vomiting ceased, the pain
became duller and was felt in the region where the ureter dips into and
becomes interwoven with the tissue of the bladder: it continued for
three days and then disappeared all of a sudden (the stone had not got
into the bladder). Thirty-six hours afterwards the calculus entered the
bulb of the urethra. I felt a frequent desire to urinate; the urine was
turbid and bloody, until at last a calculus of four grains made its
appearance in the urine. After this I frequently passed gravel and
calculi, at times with slight, at times violent pains, sometimes
accompanied with vomiting; I kept the larger calculi, with a view of
using them hereafter as a curative agent.

Professor Nasse, of Bonn, where my son studied medicine at the time, has
analyzed the calculi, and has found them to be urate of lime. He advised
me to take _Merc. dulcis_ and the _Sulphate of Soda_ for some time; it
is scarcely necessary for me to say that I did not follow his advice.

On the fifteenth of February, 1839, I felt the precursory symptoms of a
new attack, which really did break out in all its fury on the 16th, and
continued on the 17th and 18th. I now caused 5 grains of my calculi to
be triturated in my presence with 95 grains of sugar of milk, according
to the fashion of Hahnemann, and took 1/2 grain in the evening of the
17th, another 1/2 grain in the morning of the 18th. On this day I passed
very turbid urine with a considerable quantity of gravel; however, in
the region where the ureter dips into the bladder, I experienced an
uncomfortable sensation, but was well otherwise. On the 19th I was
obliged to visit a patient at the distance of two miles; on my journey I
felt that the calculus was descending into the bladder; the urine which
I emitted shortly afterwards was very turbid and bloody. That same
evening, after returning home, I felt the stone in the bulb of the
urethra, and on the morning of the 20th it came off during stool, but
unfortunately got lost among the excrement. To judge from my feeling it
must have been larger than any of the preceding calculi, and also
rougher, for its passage through the urethra was very painful and
followed by an oozing out of blood.

The uncomfortable feeling in the region of the left kidney never
disappeared completely; it became especially painful when pressing upon
that place, when riding on horseback or in a carriage, when taking
exercise or turning the body. It seems to me that the whole pelvis of
the kidneys must have been full of gravel and calculi. I now took 1/2
grain at intervals of eight days; the result was that I passed gravel
and small calculi at every micturition. On the 30th of November my
condition got worse, and I continued to take 1/2 grain of _Calc. ren.
præp._, at longer or shorter intervals, until October 18th, 1840. After
this period I ceased to pass any gravel, and I felt entirely well. On
the 3d of February I passed some more gravel. Another dose of 1/2 grain
of _Lapis renalis_; another dose on June 3d. On June 17th precursors of
another attack; on the 18th vomiting accompanied by all the frightful
circumstances which I have detailed above; the vomiting of mucus, bile,
ingesta, continued at short intervals until the 26th; my tongue was
coated with yellow mucus, and my appetite had completely disappeared.
_Bryon., Nux v._ and _Pulsat._ relieved the gastric symptom; on the
26th, in the afternoon, I passed a calculus of the size of a pea. I now
resume the use of _Calc. ren. præp._ in 1/2 grain doses, at irregular
intervals. On the 23d of October I passed a calculus of the size of a
pea, without vomiting; there were no other precursory symptoms except
the uncomfortable feeling in the region of the kidney a few days
previous. I have felt well ever since and free from all complaint,
although I continue the occasional use of 1/2 a grain of _Calc. ren.
præp._, lest I should have a relapse.

Every time I took a dose of _Calc. ren. pr._ I found that the so-called
tartar on the teeth became detached a few days afterwards. A short while
ago a nodosity, hard as a stone, which had appeared on the extensor
tendon of the right middle finger, about nine months ago, and which
threatened to increase more and more, disappeared. I consider the tartar
on the teeth, calculi renales and arthritic nodosities very similar
morbid products.

In conclusion I beg leave to offer the following remarks:

1. Hahnemann's theory of psora is no chimera, as many theoreticians
would have us believe. I was perfectly healthy previous to my being
infected with itch. What a host of sufferings have I been obliged to
endure after the suppression of the itch!

2. Isopathy deserves especial notice.

It is true, the most suitable homoeopathic remedies afforded me
relief; the incarceration of calculi in the ureter especially was
relieved by _Nux_; but they were unable to put a stop to the formation
of calculi; this result was only attained by the preparation of _Calc.
ren._


CEANOTHUS AMERICANUS.

NAT. ORD., Rhamnaceæ.

COMMON NAMES, New Jersey Tea. Red Root. Wild Snowball.

PREPARATION.--The fresh leaves are pounded to a pulp and macerated in
two parts by weight of alcohol.

     (The following by Dr. Majumdar in _Indian Homoepathic
     Review_, 1897, illustrates the chief use of this "organ
     remedy.")

Recently I had a wonderful case of supposed heart disease cured by
_Ceanothus_. I am indebted to my friend, Dr. Burnett, for the suggestion
of using _Ceanothus_.

A thin and haggard looking young man presented himself to my office on
the 26th of July, 1896. He told me he had some disease of the heart and
had been under the treatment of several eminent allopathic physicians of
this city; some declared it to be a case of hypertrophy of the heart and
some of valvular disease.

Without asking him further, I examined his heart thoroughly, but with no
particular results. The rhythm and sounds were all normal only there was
a degree of weakness in these sounds. Dulness on percussion was not
extended beyond its usual limit. So I could not make out any heart
disease in this man.

On further inquiry, I learned that the man remained in a most malarious
place for five years, during which he had been suffering off and on
from intermittent fever. I percussed the abdomen and found an enormously
enlarged and indurated spleen, reaching beyond the navel and pushing up
the thoracic viscera.

The patient complained of palpitation of heart, dyspnoea, especially
on ascending steps and walking fast. I thought from these symptoms his
former medical advisers concluded heart disease. In my mind they seemed
to be resulted from enlarged spleen.

On that very day I gave him six powders of _Ceonothus Amer._ 3x, one
dose morning and evening. I asked him to see me when his medicine
finished. He did not make his appearance, however, on the appointed day.
I thought the result of my prescription was not promising. After a week
he came and reported unusually good results.

His dyspnoea was gone, palpitation troubled him now and then, but much
less than before. He wanted me to give him the same powders. I gave him
_Sac. lac._, six doses, in the usual way.

Reported further improvement; the same powders of _Sac. lac._ twice. To
my astonishment I found the spleen much reduced in size and softened
than before; I knew nothing about this patient for some time. Only
recently I saw him, a perfect picture of sound health. He informed me
that the same powders were sufficient to set him right. He gained
health; no sign of enlarged spleen left.


CEPHALANTHUS OCCIDENTALIS.

NAT. ORD., Rubiaceæ.

COMMON NAMES, Button Bush, Crane Willow.

PREPARATION.--The fresh bark of branches and roots is pounded to a pulp
and macerated in two parts by weight of alcohol.

     (The item given below was contributed to the _American
     Observer_, 1875, by Dr. E. D. Wright.)

Proving--one-half ounce in a day.

First day--raw, sore throat; nervous, excited; felt light and easy,
happy; bowels constipated.

Second day--the same dose. Hard dreams about fighting, quarreling;
restless and tossing over; joints of the fingers lame; griping pains in
the lungs(?); in body and limbs, especially in the joints; toothache;
bowels loose, stool offensive; almost affected by the piles.

CURES.--Intermittent fever, quotidian and tertian fever; sore throat,
quinsy--had very good effect.

Rheumatic fevers, with soreness of the flesh.

A teamster fell in the river. Cold, and inflammatory fever was cured
quickly.


CEREUS BONPLANDII.

NAT. ORD., Cactacæ.

COMMON NAME, A variety of the night blooming cereus group.

PREPARATION.--The fresh green stems are pounded to a pulp and macerated
in two parts by weight of alcohol.

     (This paper, which we take from the _Homoeopathic
     Physician_, 1892, was prepared by Dr. J. H. Flitch, of
     New Scotland, N. Y., the original prover. The proving is
     also found in the _Encyclopædia_, Allen's.)

_Mind and Disposition._--An agreeable and tranquil state and frame of
mind and body (first day, evening).

Mind perfectly composed.

Feel better when engaged at something or occupied.

Desire to be at useful work, desire to be busy (second day).

Desire to be employed.

Praying or disposition to be at prayer.

Ill at ease.

Rest (third day).

Doesn't know what to do with one's self.

Feels a strong desire to give away something very necessary for him to
keep or have.

Feeling irritable (on rising).

Cannot keep himself employed at anything.

Very much disturbed in mind.

Passes the time in useless occupation (fourth day).

Very irritable; acts impulsively.

Spends the whole forenoon uselessly.

Difficulty in becoming devotional (at church).

Finds it easy to become devotional.

Feels well late in the evening (seventh day).

Thinks he is under a powerful influence.

_Sensorium._--Vertigo followed by nausea.

Swimming of the head (sixth day).

_Head._--Decidedly painful drawing sensation in the occiput, soon
subsiding (first day).

Painful stunning feeling in the right frontal bone.

Pressive pain from without inward in the occiput high up on walking.

Slight painful pressure in the right occiput from behind forward (second
day).

Disagreeable feeling in occiput, running down over the neck, followed by
a slight qualmishness.

Slight heavy feeling in the top of the forehead.

Headache occipital, continued for a quarter of an hour.

Sensation, as if something hard like a board were bound against the back
of the head, felt more especially on left side.

Head feels drawn to the left backward.

Pain in occiput running through lobes of the cerebrum.

Pain running from left ear through the head to right ear and right
parietal bone.

Pain commencing in the medulla oblongata and running upward and
expanding to the surface of the brain, worse on stooping or bending
forward.

Pain along right external angular process of frontal bone.

Pain through or across the brain from left to right.

Feeling as of being pressed at left occiput and immediately thereafter
a counter pain in left frontal bone, the latter continuing a minute or
two.

Pain from left occiput verging around left parietal bone.

Pain through occiput.

Pain in right forehead (third day).

Pain in anterior portion of brain and extending in a backward direction.

Tenderness at the point of exit of the left supra-orbital nerve.

Pain in occiput (high up).

Occipital pain (fifth day).

Bad feeling, head (third day).

_Eyes._--Pain over right eye, passing down over globe (first day).

Nauseated feeling commencing in throat, passing to stomach simultaneous
with a congested feeling in both eyes.

Pain in orbits, running from before backward.

Pain in left eyelids when stooping low (second day).

On closing the eyes perception of a cluster of round-shaped,
symmetrical, orange-colored spots.

Swimming eyes.

Capillary congestion of the conjunctiva.

Severe photophobia, producing a sticking pain through eyes.

Sore feeling through eyes as if exposed to strong sunlight.

Pain through globe of right eye.

Pain in the globe of left eye.

_Nose._--Greenish (pale) mucus discharged from nostril.

Accumulation of mucus in nose as in nasal catarrh.

Stinging in nose, more especially right side.

Stinging in right nostril.

Sneezing.

Hardened mucus in left nostril.

_Face._--Pain along right malar bone running to temple.

Looks haggard.

Yellowish face or countenance.

_Mouth, etc._--Saliva in mouth when swallowed of no unpleasant taste
(first day).

Feeling of coldness in the mouth (second day).

Feeling as of having eaten something tasting alkaline.

Water in the mouth.

Metallic taste in the mouth.

Watery saliva in the mouth (not disagreeable).

Slight metallic taste, feels as if having eaten something of a metallic
taste.

Taste of green vegetables.

Watery taste.

Sensation as of a thread of mucus on the tongue.

Insipid, watery taste (third day).

Fetid breath (noticed by myself) (fourth day).

Fetid breath (noticed by others) (fifth day).

Tongue looks frothy (sixth day).

Tongue of a purplish red hue.

Tongue feels rough.

_Throat._--Mucus adherent to the hard palate easily removed (first day).

Mucus in pharynx easily detached (second day).

Mucus in larynx easily detached.

Scraping of mucus, which seems to adhere to left side of pharynx.

Persistent accumulation of mucus in the pharynx, continually and
recurring in considerable quantities and of a pale-green color.

Mucus easily expectorated or cleared from the throat.

Clearing of the hard palate of mucus.

_Stomach, Appetite, etc._--Dry eructations (second day).

Thirstlessness.

Appetite diminished; ate very light breakfast (third day).

Relish of sweet things.

_Abdomen, Stool, etc._--Slight rumbling in bowels, left side (first
day).

Nearly or quite inefficient effort to evacuate bowels.

Fetid flatus passed from bowels.

Slight pain in epigastrium, coming and going at intervals of a few
minutes.

Slightly painful sensation in epigastrium (second day).

Passed stool not easy, not sufficient at 6 A.M. (third day).

Natural stool at 6 A.M. (sixth day).

_Urine and Urinary Organs._--Inclination to pass urine (first day).

Urine of a slightly brownish tinge (second day).

Urine smells strongly after a few minutes.

Yellowish urine.

Urine less than half usual quantity.

Urine normal.

Urine clear, small in quantity.

Urination frequent (at 4 P.M.) (second day).

Amelioration after urination.

Passed a small quantity saturated yellowish urine.

_Sexual._--Slight increase of sexual desire.

Anæsthesia and dwindling of the sexual organs.

_Kidneys._--Slight pain of a sticking character in right kidney (second
day).

Pain in left kidney, long continued, as from the presence of a renal
calculus.

Pain in left abdomen sharp and cutting, as from a calculus impacted in
the ureter.

Slight pain in right kidney repeated after an interval (third day).

Sticking pain in right ureter.

More severe sticking pain in right kidney.

Soreness on external pressure over right kidney.

Pain on stooping, bending over in right kidney.

Pain in left kidney (fifth day).

_Chest, Heart, etc._--Deep inspiration as if tired, although
experiencing no fatigue whatever (second day).

Feels as if pained or oppressed at chest.

Slightly painful sensation at left chest, region of the heart.

Deep inspiration.

At intervals deep inspiration, as if the chest were laboring under an
oppression hardly definable.

Slight feeling of oppression, or a weakness in the chest with the deep
inspiration.

Tendency to expand the chest automatically and rhythmically, recurring
very frequently.

The chest expands itself to its utmost capacity, seemingly, and in an
instant collapses, the same process to be repeated.

Respiration measured, no interval between inspiration and expiration.

Sensation of uneasiness extending to lumbar region on deep inspiration
(described above).

Slight pricking sensation of pain in the heart.

Sighing respiration (very frequent) (fourth day).

Tenderness of the anterior lower left intercostal muscles below the
heart (third day).

Pain in chest and through heart, with pain running toward spleen, the
latter momentarily, the former (heart pain) continuing.

Pain in left great pectoral muscle, worse toward the tendon.

Sighing respiration, noticed many times (fifth day).

Coughing on throwing off outer garments.

Somewhat persistent pains in the cartilages of the left lower ribs.

Long, deep, uneasy respiration, felt more acutely (sixth day).

The chest acts automatically, not according to will or whim.

Chest feels empty.

Pain at heart.

Pulse dicrotic, and several intermissions noticed within a minute (after
rising 6 A.M.).

Deep inspiration and expiration, chest is emptied quickly.

Sensation as of a great stone laid upon the heart.

Sensation (soon after) as if the thoracic wall anterior to heart were
broken out or torn away.

Pulse sharp.

Desire to remove clothing from chest.

Pain in chest and both arms.

_Neck, Back, etc._--Painful sensation in the sides of the neck, left, at
mastoid or below it, continuing longer than on right side.

Pain in left neck behind mastoid process, running backward and upward.

Pain through right shoulder blade (scapula).

Dorsal vertebræ feel painful (third day).

Tenderness along spines of cervical and upper dorsal vertebræ (fourth
day).

Pain in muscles of thorax midway between scapula and sacrum (sixth day).

Pain on pressure of muscle of left side of the neck.

Back lame on stooping.

Pain in right scapula.

Pain in neck.

Pain in left side above and along clavicle.

Fatigue in lumbar region on riding.

_Upper extremities._--Tired feeling in both arms (second day).

Drawing pain in index finger of both hands.

Pain in both upper arms.

Pain running across inner side of left arm, felt longest at bend of the
elbow.

Pain in left shoulder like that produced by carrying a heavy load.

Pain running along the back down to the arms.

Dull pain in left elbow and forearm.

Pain with numbness in left forearm, ulnar side (third day).

Pain along inner side of right upper arm.

Pain with numbness of right arm while writing.

Pain in metacarpal bone of right thumb.

Pain (very noticeable) in metacarpal phalangeal joint of right hand.

Lameness in right forearm above wrist.

Drawing from end of right thumb upward, pain quite constant.

Considerable soreness on contact of anterior muscles of right arm.

Pain on ulnar side of left carpo-metacarpal joint (fourth day).

Pain in external border of left elbow joint.

Pain at and back of left shoulder joint.

Lameness of left little finger.

Pain over ulna posteriorly.

Pain above wrist.

Tenderness of the flexor muscles of both upper arms.

Pain in right ring finger at 3 P.M. and repeated (fifth day).

Pain at junction of second and third phalanx (last joint) of left index
finger.

Pain in dorsum of right hand.

Pain in left forearm.

Pain in both arms and chest.

Pain in third phalanx of left index finger.

Pain in right little finger running through bone.

Pain in right ring finger.

Pain in right wrist.

Pain in first and second metacarpal bones (sixth day) of right hand.

Pain in the dorsum of left hand.

Pain in left little finger.

Pain on back of left wrist, running to forearm.

Pain in the anterior muscles of upper arm.

_Lower Extremities._--Pain in right knee (second day).

Pain through right hip (fifth day).

Pain in right great trochanter.

Pain on the inner side of left knee (repeated).

Pain on left knee, inner and lower border.

Pain in both knees.

Pain in both knees on rising.

Pain in hamstring tendons of left thigh.

Pain in right hip (sixth day).

Pain in head of the right thigh bone.

Pain in right patella, very sore, difficult to touch without very
considerable pain.

Pain above right external malleolus.

Pressing or pressive feeling, beginning at the sacrum and running down
through both thighs down to feet.

Pain in different joints of the lower extremities.

_Skin._--Itching of the nose (second day).

Itching on various parts of the body (general itching) (third day).

Itching pustule of face near ala of nose.

Itching of the right popliteal space, with roughness of the skin (fifth
day).

Profuse shedding of the hair on combing the head.

Itching with roughness of the skin of a spot a few inches square above
the left knee.

Itching of a spot a few inches below left scapula, with a condition of
the skin like eczema periodically.

_Sleep._ Not sleeping late at night.

Not sleeping at 11 P.M., mind disturbed (fourth day).

Dreamed of dogs (fifth day).

Dream of a fracas which caused great excitement in the dreamer.

Drowsiness at 11 P.M. (sixth day).

Drowsiness (third day).

Slept pretty well (fifth day).

Awakes at 5 A.M. (sixth day).

Awakes at 9 A.M. (seventh day, Sunday).

Recurrence of old dreams of years ago.

Yawning (second day).

_Generalities._--Feeling miserably on retiring.

Throws himself on bed without undressing.

Great yawning fit (third day).

Feels not pleasant.

Feels half sick.

Very dull in the morning, all morning.

Feels very badly, has an ill-defined bad feeling in the evening and at
night.

Easily chilled in a room; better on disrobing for bed.

Alternations of symptoms of mind and bodily pains. When pains of the
body are noticed, symptoms affecting the mind are suspended. The mind
loses its characteristics, is clear, and one feels better.

REMARKS.--In looking over the above proving we find a number of
illustrations of the alternate action of the drug. But perhaps what
strikes the reader most forcibly is the way the symptoms follow Reuter's
series. The most prominent symptoms early developed, catarrhal and
gastric, have come and gone within three or four days, while those
affecting the chest, heart, sensorium, eyes, brain, and nerves are more
slowly developed, and are the ones that persist. Another thing to be
noticed is the long duration of its action. The high-water mark in
regard to its action was not reached (I mean its action on the nervous
system) until nearly ten days after discontinuing to take it. It is an
_antipsoric_ of remarkable power. Some skin symptoms developed by it
persisted off and on for years, two or three of which I will mention.
"Itching of the right popliteal space," this after continuing for eight
or nine years disappeared. I think some _Sepia_ [Greek: Ip] I took had
something to do with its disappearance. Another: "Itching with roughness
of the skin, like eczema, above the left knee anteriorly." This still
persists. I still have "Itching, with an eruption resembling at times
herpes zoster below the left scapula." This is still present, although
annoying. I have done nothing to cause its disappearance.

In regard to _verifications_ I could report a goodly number. One of the
first I ever had was a case of eczema of both hands, extending as far as
the elbows. Cured in six weeks. The provings point in the direction of
kidney troubles, and I have seen it speedily cause the disappearance of
deposits in the urine that were giving much inconvenience. In a case of
dropsy of cardiac and renal origin (albuminuria) in which there was
great oedema, cured in two or three weeks. Sleeplessness, peculiar in
its nature, corresponding to the proving, is relieved by it. Intercostal
neuralgia, especially on left side. Anterior crural neuralgia, an
aggravated case, promptly relieved. I need not say that the symptoms
strongly point to rheumatism. I could say much on that part of the
subject, and there is the sphere in which it has seemed to have been
useful by the professional friend to whom I have furnished the medicine
for trial. In a monograph by Dr. R. E. Kunge, of New York, and the
writer, I ventured the prediction that _Cereus bonplandii_ would prove
of value in the treatment of insanity. I send you the report of two
cases. I have one other still under treatment. A patient for fourteen
years in the Middletown Insane Hospital, improving, called to see Ida
Reamer, a young woman of eighteen, living in New Scotland, on what is
called the Heldeberg Mountain or hill, on the evening of April 19th,
1884. For some time previously she had been living with a relative in
Albany, attending school and assisting in household labor. Had studied
hard and probably overtaxed her strength. Her friends noticing that she
was not her former self, and that though usually amiable and cheerful,
she had become gloomy and taciturn, brought her home. Rest did her no
good, and I was called after she had been home for some time. On my
visit I noticed she would not answer questions; was wandering aimlessly
about the house; could not sit still, if seated, more than a few
minutes. During my visit I think she changed her position a dozen or
fifteen times. She would go to the water pail and get a drink, then in a
minute or two would get up and go to the door. After standing a minute
or two she would come in and sit down, only to rise up and repeat her
restless wanderings. I could elicit nothing from the mother of anything
wrong in regard to the menstrual function. Prescribed _Cereus
bonplandii_, fourth decimal. Did not call again, but was informed by her
friend that she soon regained her health. Was requested to call again to
see Ida R. on November 29th of the same year. This time there was
considerable mental disturbance; she had attended some entertainment
which she had considered of a questionable nature, and had been worrying
over it. Although living out at service, it did not appear that she had
overworked. I found her sitting still; she would sit for hours. If any
one disturbed her, she would curse, swear, throw boots and shoes or
anything that came in her way, resisted attempts made by her friends to
remove her to her home. Prescribed _Cer. bon._ 4. Saw her December 3d,
7th, 10th, at the end of which time she was entirely free from any
mental manifestations, and although under observation has never
experienced a return of them to the present date.

In the summer of 1879 was consulted in the case of Mrs. D. V., afflicted
with melancholia for a year or two. The disease had appeared just
subsequent to her confinement with her last child. Prescribed wholesome
advice in regard to mode of life, etc., and very little medicine. In a
few months she was apparently as well as ever. June 5th, 1884, was
called to see Mrs. D. V. She had quite recently given birth to a child
and was developing delusions, most of which were those of a spiritual
nature. She thought she had committed the unpardonable sin, or that she
had offended some of her friends, and was constantly worrying. Appetite
very poor. Prescribed _Cer. bon._ 4, gave her nourishing diet with
Maltine and Pepsin to aid digestion. On July 11th she was about the
house attending to her household duties.


CHEIRANTHUS CHEIRI.

NAT. ORD., Cruciferæ.

COMMON NAME, Wall flower.

PREPARATION.--The fresh plant is pounded to a pulp and macerated in two
parts by weight of alcohol.

     (Dr. Robert T. Cooper, of London, contributed the
     following to the _Hahnemannian Monthly_, 1897):

A tincture is used made from a single dark-flowered plant. No proving of
this remedy has come under my notice, yet I consider the following case
worth reporting: T. T., age twenty, a clerk; admission date, 30th April,
1892; never heard well on the left side, but particularly deaf the last
month, and deafness increases; watch, hearing contact only. History of
much earache in childhood; left ear discharges, but the discharge does
not run out. Wisdom teeth; left upper and right, lower and upper,
breaking through. Gave _Cheiranthus cheiri_.

28th May, hears very much better; left, 3-1/2 inches. No medicine.

11th June, continues improving gradually; left, 15 inches.

25th June, continues to hear voices very fairly on the left side, but no
improvement since last time; left, 15 inches. Gave _Cheiranthus cheiri_.

25th July, restoration of improving condition; left, 20 inches. No
medicine.


CHIONANTHUS VIRGINICA.

NAT. ORD., Oleaceæ.

COMMON NAME, Fringe Tree. Snow-flower.

PREPARATION.--The fresh bark is pounded to a pulp and macerated in two
parts by weight of alcohol.

     (The following is the only proving, we believe, ever made
     of this drug; it was the thesis of Dr. John W. Lawshé,
     Atlanta, Ga., on his graduation, and was published in
     _North American Journal of Homoeopathy_, May, 1883).

This being the first and only proving of this drug, Prof. Lilienthal
requested a copy of it for publication, which I cheerfully agreed to
give him.

Monday, July 10, 1882, 9:30 A.M., I took one drop of the tincture,
after having taken the 12x and 6x potencies, one day each, without any
effect. I continued taking the tincture each hour during the day,
increasing each dose one drop till five were reached, then increased
each dose five drops till twenty-five were reached, but without any
effect whatever.

Tuesday, July 11th, I began with thirty drops at 9 o'clock A.M., and
increased the dose five drops each hour till I reached one drachm, and
took three doses of one drachm each. I retired at 10 o'clock feeling
perfectly well.

I awoke at 4:10 A.M., Wednesday, July 12th, with a severe
headache--chiefly in the forehead and just over the eyes--especially the
left eye. Eyeballs exceedingly painful, feel sore and bruised.

Cutting twisting pains all through my abdomen.

I turned over and lay with my face downward, which seemed to relieve the
abdominal pains some, and after awhile I went to sleep. I awoke again at
8:20 feeling very sick and badly all over. Head feels very sore all over
and through it; heavy dull feeling in forehead and a drawing or pressing
at the root of my nose. I felt so weak I had to sit down awhile before I
could finish dressing; _never_ before felt so sick at my stomach. Bitter
eructations, great nausea and retching, with a desire for stool.

I finished dressing and looked at my tongue, which was heavily coated
and of a dirty, greenish yellow color. I started down stairs and had a
violent attack of nausea and a great deal of retching before I could
vomit. It seemed as though there were a "_double suction_" in my
abdomen, one trying to force something up and the other sucking it back,
till finally, by quite an effort, I vomited a teacup full, or more, of
_very dark green_ bile, rather ropy, _I think_, and exceedingly bitter.
The bile came up with a single gush and I was through. Immediately a
cold perspiration broke out and stood in beads on my forehead, and I
felt very weak. Desire for stool gone after vomiting.

I have a sore, weak, bruised feeling all over the small of my back;
feels very weak when standing or moving about; better sitting or lying
down.

No appetite for breakfast, but my stomach felt so weak and empty that I
drank a cup of coffee and ate half a biscuit, which relieved to some
extent.

9 A.M., am so nervous I cannot keep still and can hardly write down my
symptoms.

9:30 o'clock, my back in lumbar and sacral region is so sore and weak I
could hardly walk from the car to the office, every step seemed to jar
my whole body and made my headache worse.

10 o'clock, have been quiet for half an hour and feel some better; have
a pressing or squeezing sensation in the bridge of my nose; sore
constricted feeling in the temples, with throbbing temporal arteries.

10:30 o'clock, just came from stool; the first passed was watery, but
the last was more solid in appearance; stool terribly offensive, like
_carrion_. Heavy, all-gone sort of feeling low down in hypogastrium;
color of stool was dark brown with pieces of undigested food in it.

11:30, just got home and feel very bad and weak. My head and back ache
considerably, and I feel "played out" generally.

12 o'clock, forehead and cheeks _very_ hot and dry, radial pulse 114,
chilly sensation darting through body from front to back, causing a sort
of shivering or involuntary jerking, forehead feels like a hot coal of
fire to my hand; headache in forehead and over eyes relieved by pressing
with my hand, but I cannot bear it long for my head seems to get hotter
from it; am exceedingly nervous, cannot lie still, involuntary jerkings
in different parts of the body. Roof of mouth and tongue feel very dry,
although there seems to be the usual amount of saliva present. No thirst
at all.

I went to sleep about 12:20 P.M., and was awakened at 2 o'clock for
dinner. Couldn't eat anything; I tried but it nauseated me; could only
drink a cup of coffee; headache worse after waking; pulse 88; head not
quite so hot, body feels chilly, and I had a shawl thrown over me; went
to sleep again about 3:30.

I was told that at 4:15 my face and head were covered with a profuse
perspiration, and my carotid arteries pulsated very hard and rapidly; I
got up at 5 o'clock and bathed my face in cold water and felt somewhat
better, though my head and back still ache considerably and feel quite
sore; eyeballs feel bruised.

6:30. Weak, empty feeling about stomach, which was relieved for awhile
by eating some crackers and drinking a cup of coffee. Pulse still 88.

At 8:15 had an action from my bowels; during stool griping and cutting
pains in abdomen, about and below umbilicus; stool thin, watery,
blackish-brown color and very offensive. I retired at 9:30 and had to
have an extra covering thrown upon me, I was so chilly, while my
room-mate lay without any covering at all. My head feels sore and
bruised all over, and the small of my back is exceedingly weak and
feels, when I touch it with my hand, as though the skin were all off.

Thursday, July 13th. I was very nervous and restless last night after
going to bed; didn't go to sleep till after 12 o'clock, and woke up
several times before daylight with pains in my head, abdomen and back.
Got up at 8 o'clock. My head feels sore and bruised; the bruised feeling
seems to go into my brain now; every time I move, cough or laugh it
seems as if my head would split open and fly in every direction; my
_back_ is not so painful this morning; I couldn't eat much breakfast;
stool this morning was quite copious, watery, _dark_ brown and not so
offensive as yesterday.

9:30. Headache better; several times this morning I have had attacks of
cutting or griping pains in my intestines, in and about the umbilical
region; my tongue is very heavily coated in the centre with a thick
yellowish fur; the tip is slightly red, and on each side of the tip
there are several little places that look as though blood was about to
ooze forth from them; my tongue feels drawn and shriveled up the centre.

4:30. The only symptom at 11 o'clock was a dull, sore, aching feeling in
the umbilical and iliac regions, occasionally changing for just a minute
or so to a severe griping, which was relieved some by emission of
flatus. My face has a yellowish appearance; from the outer to the inner
canthus there is a reddish-yellow streak, about one-quarter of an inch
wide, in the whites of both eyes; the blood vessels of the sclerotic
coat are very much enlarged and distinctly visible.

Friday, July 14th. I suffered considerably after 5 o'clock yesterday
afternoon and last night with pains in my abdomen, and they are more
severe this morning than yesterday; it feels just like a string tied in
a "slip knot" around my intestines in the umbilical region, and every
once in awhile it was _suddenly_ drawn tight for a minute or so, and
then _gradually_ loosened; stool this morning was very thin, watery and
rather flaky; the flaky portion was dark yellow, the fluid portion
_dark_ green, with a _light_ green foam or froth on top, streaked with a
white, mucus-looking substance; flatus and fæces passed together; some
pain in my bowels during stool, and a hot, scalded sensation in anus,
which lasted fifteen or twenty minutes after stool; during stool a cold
perspiration broke out on my forehead and back of my hands; took quite a
while to pass stool, and then only a small quantity passed; eyeballs
feel bruised and the whites have a yellowish cast all over, though the
"bands" are still very distinct; my skin is quite yellow to-day and I
feel very much fatigued generally.

Saturday, July 15th. Stool about natural this morning; some feeling in
my abdomen, though not so severe; no new symptoms.

Sunday, July 16th. The only thing unusual which I noticed to-day was the
passage of considerable offensive flatus; a greater quantity after
retiring than during the day.

I noticed no more symptoms after Sunday night.

     (The following is from a letter of Dr. E. M. Hale):

Some time ago I received a letter from Dr. F. S. Smith, of Lock Haven,
Pa., in which, referring to _Chionanthus_, he says:

"For the first time to-day I read your article on _Chionanthus_ in the
last edition of your Materia Medica of 'New Remedies.' I have been using
this drug for over two years, as a specific for so-called sick headache.
It has done wonders for me in that disease. I had been a victim from
early childhood, and have suffered terribly. I have not had an attack
for two years. If I am threatened, a few drops, timely taken, dissipates
it at once.

"Dr. B., a dentist, aged 35, dark complexion, a victim to sick headache,
had an attack on an average once in three weeks. Since taking
_Chionanthus_, has not had more than two or three attacks in over two
years, and then owing to a neglect to take the medicine. I have failed
in but one case, and that was a menstrual sick headache.

"I prescribe it as follows: In cases of habitual sick headache, 5 gtts.
of the 2x dil. three times a day for a week, then twice a day for a
week, then once a day for a week, after which the patient only takes it
when symptoms of the attack show themselves. I regard it almost a
specific."

     (_Chionanthus_ is also, by some physicians, regarded as a
     specific in jaundice, either acute or chronic, and the
     proving seems to justify the belief.)


CORNUS ALTERNIFOLIA.

NAT. ORD., Cornaceæ.

COMMON NAME, Alternate-leaved Cornel or Dogwood. Swamp-walnut.

PREPARATION.--The fresh bark and young twigs are pounded to a pulp and
macerated in two parts by weight of alcohol.

     (The following proving of this remedy was made under the
     supervision of Dr. F. H. Lutze, Brooklyn. The _Cornus
     alternifolia_, or "swamp walnut," has a reputation among
     the people in certain localities as being a "sure" remedy
     for "salt rheum.")

FIRST PROVING BY R. E. ALBERTSON.

Commence at bedtime Tuesday, May 12, 1896.

Wednesday, May 13, 1896.--Awoke this morning after a very refreshing
night's sleep, feeling as well as usual; and did not notice anything out
of the ordinary during the entire day. Had stool, but somewhat scanty.
Appetite fair.

Thursday, May 14, 1896.--Did not rest very well during night. Had dream
I was spending summer in country. Did not get into anything like a sound
sleep until near morning; and then was very reluctant about getting up;
would have preferred to have had a couple hours more of such sleep. I
have noticed nothing in the course of the day worthy of mention
excepting a pain across the small of the back, which lasted only a short
time and then disappeared. Stool to-day little better than yesterday.

Friday, May 15, 1896.--Another restless night; would get into a light
sleep off and on until near morning. Dreamed again; this time of an
exciting fire drill. Up to to-day had been taking _Cornus alternifolia_
thrice daily; 3 drops 30th, commencing with this morning every three
hours. Stool to-day at first hard and difficult, then loose. Nothing
further noticed to-day.

Saturday, May 16, 1896.--Passed a very restless and sleepless night;
guess I was awake at the striking of every hour. Tongue has been coated
a yellowish white for a couple of days. Stool to-day, but scanty. Feel
as well as usual, but don't seem to have the ambition to do anything for
any length of time.

Sunday, May 17, 1896.--Experienced another very restless and sleepless
night. Felt an aching in left shoulder and dull pain across forehead,
more particularly on right side. Stool to-day and appetite fair.

Monday, May 18, 1896.--While I passed another restless night, it was not
as bad as nights previous. Seem to hear every little noise and sound.
When once awake, mind becomes active and then it is difficult to get
into a sleep again. Have dreamed something mostly every night; some of
which I do not remember.

Tuesday, May 19, 1896.--Rested somewhat better last night; though was
awake off and on. Last dose taken at bedtime.

Wednesday, May 20, 1896.--Experienced another restless night; was awake
most of the night until about 3 A.M., when I dropped off into a sleep.

Friday, May 22, 1896.--Noticed a little sore inside of mouth (left
side), which by Saturday, Sunday, Monday and Tuesday had become very
annoying. When eating anything that came in contact with it, or even
when moving the mouth in a certain direction would cause a sticking,
pricking pain. I also want to mention a few eruptions, small pustules on
face and neck, which appeared during this proving.

SECOND PROVING OF "CORNUS ALTERNIFOLIA."

BY F. H. LUTZE, M. D.

February 1, 1896.--Took 5 drops of [Greek: theta] three times daily.

February 6, 1896.--Took 5 drops of [Greek: theta] every two hours. On
second day had two loose evacuations in quick succession in the
afternoon.

February 9, 1896.--A cold feeling in chest as if it were filled with
cold air or ice; this continued for two days and was very disagreeable,
but seemed to have no influence on action of heart or respiration.

A second proving, commenced on April 1st, reproduced the same symptoms
in same manner. Have made no proving of 30th yet.

THIRD PROVING OF "CORNUS ALTERNIFOLIA" 30TH DILUTION.

Commenced at bedtime Sunday, June 7, 1896.

Monday, June 8, 1896.--Awoke after being awake the greater part of the
night feeling as usual. Felt dull pain in right side region of liver
about 11 A.M.

Tuesday, June 9, 1896.--Slept very little; tossed and turned mostly all
night; could not get into any comfortable position. Tongue this morning
coated a yellowish white. No stool to-day and appetite fair.

Wednesday, June 10, 1896.--While I rested somewhat better than nights
previous, yet was awake considerable part of the night. Had two dreams;
one of dead rats mashed to a pulp; the other of coition, causing an
emission. When I awoke this morning, felt a raw feeling in throat, which
continued throughout the day; though not quite as bad as when I arose.
Sneezed some, too, to-day; head partially stopped up toward night. About
an hour or two after dinner, which I ate with a relish, a sick sensation
came over me, a dull heavy feeling in forehead accompanied with a
nauseous and dizzy feeling; could hardly pull one foot after the other
on my way home from work; but after being a little while in the open air
and walking, feeling subsided some, and when I reached home felt much
better; and after supper had entirely left me; though when I retired
that night I felt as though I had been doing a very hard day's work and
was glad when my body touched the bed. Stool very scanty to-day; appears
difficult to do anything; seems to be quite some gas.

Thursday, June 11, 1896.--Awoke very tired; sleep disturbed
considerably; could not rest in any position. Raw feeling in throat
still this morning, with a frequent desire to clear; a feeling as though
something lodged there and should come out. Stool to-day, but scant. A
dull ache in region of heart felt in afternoon. Feel tired and drowsy.
All ambition seems to have left me. Appetite very good to-day.

Friday, June 12, 1896.--Feel very well this morning and slept fairly
well during the night, though was awake a few times. To-day marks the
first appearance of eruptions; one on the right wrist, the other on
right side of chin; small pustules; in one case blind, all others
forming pus.

Saturday, June 13, 1896.--Experienced another restless night. Another
pustule has appeared on chin and also ringworm on forehead (right side);
feel very well to-day.

Sunday, June 14, 1896.--Slept fairly well during night. Experienced
nothing particular excepting toward night an awful uneasy feeling came
over me; a feeling that something terrible was going to happen.

Monday, June 16, 1896.--Awoke very tired this morning; have a cough,
with a feeling as though something heavy was lying upon my chest and
throat.

Wednesday, June 17, 1896.--Slept pretty well during night; feel very
languid and tired; a feeling as though my legs were unable to bear me
up.

Sunday, June 28, 1896.--Toward evening felt very tired and drowsy with
heavy sensation in head; about 9:30 lay down upon the lounge and dropped
off into a doze; awoke a half hour afterwards with a feeling as though I
wanted to vomit, and chills, which continued for an hour when I vomited,
which seemed to relieve me some, after which fever took the place of the
chill which abated some toward morning.

Monday, June 29, 1896.--Managed to get to my business, but was unable to
do anything all day on account of the weak feeling and a violent
pressing headache in forehead, which continued all day; worse on motion
and on stooping felt as though everything would come out. About 5 P.M.
diarrhoea set in which continued all night, every half hour to an
hour, the same the day following and continued right up to Sunday night,
July 5th. Lost in that time six pounds.


CRATÆGUS OXYACANTHA.

NAT. ORD., Pomaceæ.

COMMON NAME, White or May Thorn. English Hawthorn.

PREPARATION.--The fresh berries are pounded to a pulp and macerated in
two times their weight of alcohol.

     (The _The New York Medical Journal_, October 10, 1896,
     published a communication from Dr. M. C. Jennings, under
     the heading "Cratægus Oxyacantha in the treatment of
     Heart Disease," of which the following is the substance):

Dr. Green, of Ennis, Ireland, for many years had a reputation for the
cure of heart disease that caused patients to flock to him from all
parts of the United Kingdom. He cured the most of them and amassed
considerable wealth by means of his secret, for, contrary to the code,
he, though a physician in good standing, refused to reveal the remedy to
his professional brethren. After his death, about two years ago, his
daughter, a Mrs. Graham, revealed the name of the remedy her father had
used so successfully. It is _Cratægus oxyacantha_. So much for the
history of the remedy. Dr. Jennings procured for himself some of the
remedy, and his experience with it explains Dr. Green's national
reputation. He writes:

"Case I was that of a Mr. B., aged seventy-three years. I found him
gasping for breath when I entered the room, with a pulse-rate of 158 and
very feeble; great oedema of lower limbs and abdomen. A more desperate
case could hardly be found. I gave him fifteen drops of _Cratægus_ in
half a wineglass of water. In fifteen minutes the pulse beat was 126 and
stronger, and breathing was not so labored. In twenty-five minutes pulse
beat 110 and the force was still increasing, breathing much easier. He
now got ten drops in same quantity of water, and in one hour from the
time I entered the house he was, for the first time in ten days, able to
lie horizontally on the bed. I made an examination of the heart and
found mitral regurgitation from valvular deficiency, with great
enlargement. For the oedema I prescribed _Hydrargyrum cum creta_,
_Squill_ and _Digitalis_. He received ten drops four times a day of the
_Cratægus_ and was permitted to use some light beer, to which he had
become accustomed at meal time. He made a rapid and apparently full
recovery until, in three months, he felt as well as any man of his age
in Chicago. He occasionally, particularly in the change of weather,
takes some of the _Cratægus_ which, he says, quickly stops shortness of
breath or pain in the heart. His father and a brother died of heart
disease."

Another case was that of a young woman, who, when Dr. Jennings appeared
in response to the summons, was said to be dead. "I went in and found
that she was not quite dead, though apparently so. I put five or six
drops of _Nitrite of amyl_ to her nose, and alternately pressing and
relaxing the chest, so as to imitate natural breathing, I soon had her
able to open her eyes and speak. I gave her hypodermically ten drops,
and in less than half an hour she was able to talk and describe her
feelings. An examination revealed a painfully anæmic condition of the
patient, but without any discoverable lesions of the heart, except
functional." Under _Cratægus_ she made a good recovery. "Her heart
trouble, though very dangerous, was only functional, and resulted from
want of proper assimilation of the food, due chiefly to the dyspeptic
state and dysentery."

Another case was that of a woman who "was suffering from compensatory
enlargement of the heart from mitral insufficiency," was taken with
dyspnoea when Dr. Jennings was called and was nearly dead. Under
_Cratægus_ and some other indicated remedies she made an excellent
recovery. "In a letter from her, three months afterward, she said she
was feeling well, but that she would not feel fully secure without some
of the _Cratægus_."

"The forty other cases ran courses somewhat similar to the three
cited--all having been apparently cured. Yet I am not satisfied beyond a
doubt, that any of those patients were completely cured except those
whose trouble of the heart were functional, like the second case cited.
And it is possible and even probable that in weather of a heavy
atmosphere or when it is surcharged with electricity, or if the patient
be subjected to great excitement or sudden or violent commotion or
exercise he may suffer again therewith. That the medicine has a
remarkable influence on the diseased heart must, I think, be admitted.
From experiments on dogs and cats made by myself, it appears to
influence the vagi and cardio inhibitory centres, and diminishes the
pulse rate, increases the intraventricular pressure, and thus filling
the heart with blood causes retardation of the beat and an equilibrium
between the general blood pressure and force of the beat. Cardiac
impulse, after a few days' use of the _Cratægus_, is greatly
strengthened and yields that low, soft tone so characteristic of the
first sound, as shown by the cardiograph. The entire central nervous
system seems to be influenced favorably by its use; the appetite
increases and assimilation and nutrition improve, showing an influence
over the sympathetic and the solar plexus. Also a sense of quietude and
well-being rests on the patient, and he who before its use was cross,
melancholic and irritable, after a few days of its use shows marked
signs of improvement in his mental state. I doubt if it is indicated in
fatty enlargement. The dose which I have found to be the most available
is from ten to fifteen drops after meals or food. If taken before food
it may, in very susceptible patients, cause nausea. I find also that
after its use for a month it may be well to discontinue for a week or
two, when it should be renewed for another month or so. Usually three
months seem to be the proper time for actual treatment, and after that
only at such times as a warning pain of the heart or dyspnoea may
point out.

     (The _Kansas City Medical Journal_, 1898, contained a
     paper on the remedy, by Dr. Joseph Clements, from which
     the following pertinent extracts are taken):

"About twelve years ago I was suddenly seized with terrible pain in the
left breast; it extended over the entire region of the heart and down
the brachial plexus of the left arm as far as the wrist. I pressed my
hands over my heart and seemed unable to move. My lips blenched, my eyes
rolled in a paroxysm of agony; the most fearful sense of impending
calamity oppressed me and I seemed to expect death, or something worse,
to fall upon and overwhelm me. The attack lasted a short time and then
began to subside, and soon I was myself again, but feeling weak and
excited. I consulted no one; took no medicine. I did not know what to
make of it, but gradually it faded from my mind and I thought no more of
it until two years afterwards, when I had another attack, and again
nearly a year later. Each of these was very severe, like the first, and
lasted about as long and left me in about the same condition. I remember
no other seizure of importance until about three years ago, and again a
year later. These were not so terrible in the suffering involved, but
the fear, the apprehension, the awful sense of coming calamity, I think,
grew upon me. From this time on, two years ago, the attacks came
frequently, the time varying from two or three months to two or three
weeks between.

"I took some nitro-glycerine tablets and some pills of _Cactus Mexicana_,
but with no benefit that I could perceive. This brings me down to about
fifteen months ago. I was feeling very badly, having had several attacks
within a few weeks. My pulse was at times very rapid and weak, and
irregular and intermittent.

     (About this time he got hold of _Cratægus_ with the
     following result):

"After getting my supply I began with six drops, increasing to ten before
meals and at bedtime. The results were marvellous. In twenty-four hours
my pulse showed marked improvement; in two or three weeks it became
regular and smooth and forceful. Palpitation and dyspnoea soon
entirely left me; I began to walk up and down hills without difficulty,
and a more general and buoyant sense of security and well-being has come
to stay. During the three months that I was taking the medicine, which I
did with a week's intermission several times, I had several slight
attacks, one rather hard seizure, but was relieved at once on taking ten
drops of the medicine.

     (He adds that hypodermic of _Morphia_ does not give
     relief from these heart pains as quickly and as surely as
     does fifteen drops of _Cratægus_. He also says, "of
     course I consider it the most useful discovery of the
     Nineteenth century." He also names a number of "the most
     reputable and careful men in the profession," who are
     having good results with this remedy.)

     (Dr. T. C. Duncan contributes the following illustrative
     cases):

"Mrs. A., a printer, came to me complaining of some pain in the side as
if it would take her life. She did not have it all the time, only at
times, usually the last of the week, when tired. I prescribed _Bryonia_,
then _Belladonna_, without prompt relief. One Saturday she came with a
severe attack, locating the pain with her right hand above and to the
left of the stomach. The pulse was strong and forcible. On careful
examination I found the heart beat below the normal, indicating
hypertrophy. I examined the spine, and to the left of the vertebra about
two inches I found a very tender spot (spinal hyperæmia). She told me
that when a girl she had several attacks, and that her own family
physician (Dr. Patchen) gave her a remedy that relieved her at once. She
had tried several physicians, among them an allopath, who gave
hypodermic injections of morphia, without relief. Hot applications
sometimes relieved.

"I now recognized that I had a case of angina pectoris, and that her
early attacks were due, I thought, to carrying her heavy brother. Now
the attacks come when she becomes tired holding her composing stick; at
the same time she became very much flurried, so much so that she had to
stop work because she was so confused.

"I now gave her a prescription for _Cactus_, but told her I would like to
try first a new remedy, giving her _Cratægus_, saturating some disks
with the tincture (B. & T.). I directed her to take two disks every hour
until relieved, and then less often. If not relieved to take the
_Cactus_.

"She returned in a week reporting that she was relieved after the first
dose of _Cratægus_. More, that hurried, flurried feeling had not
troubled her this week. Her face has a parchment skin, and the
expression of anxiety so significant of heart disease was certainly
relieved. I have not seen her since.

"In my proving of this drug it produced a flurried feeling due, I
thought, to the rapid action of the stimulated heart. One prover, a
nervous lady medical student, gives to-day in her report "a feeling of
quiet and calmness, mentally." This is a secondary effect, for it was
preceded by "an unusual rush of blood to the head with a _confused_
feeling."

"One swallow does not make a summer," neither does one case establish a
remedy; but I think that as _Cactus_ has a clearly defined therapeutic
range, so it seems that _Cratægus_ may prove a valuable addition to our
meagre array of heart remedies.


CUPHEA VISCOSISSIMA.

NAT. ORD., Lythraceæ.

COMMON NAMES, Clammy cuphea. Tar-weed.

PREPARATION.--The fresh plant is pounded to a pulp and macerated in two
parts by weight of alcohol.

     (In 1888 Dr. A. A. Roth contributed the following
     concerning _Cuphea vis._ to the _Homoeopathic
     Recorder_):

Two years ago, whilst battling manfully for the life of a child ill to
death from cholera infantum, I was persuaded by a lady friend to use red
pennyroyal tea, and to my delight I had the pleasure of seeing a
marvellous change in less than twenty-four hours. The vomiting ceased
promptly and the bowels gradually became normal. Impressed by this fact,
and also the fact that it was used very extensively in home treatment by
country people, I procured the fresh plant, and prepared a tincture as
directed in the _American Homoeopathic Pharmacopoeia_ under article
"Hedeoma." This made a beautiful dark-green tincture, having an aromatic
odor and slightly astringent taste. Of this I gave from five to ten
drops, according to age, every hour until relieved, and then as often as
needed, and found it act promptly and effectively. Feeling loath to add
another remedy to our already over-burdened Materia Medica, I deferred
any mention of the fact; but now after a fair trial for two seasons I
feel justified in believing that the _Cuphea viscosissima_ will prove a
treasure in the treatment of cholera infantum. Out of a large number of
cases treated I had but three square failures, and they were
complicated with marasmus to an alarming extent before I began the
_Cuphea_; one died and two finally recovered. _Cuphea_ does not act with
equal promptness in all forms of cholera infantum. Two classes of cases
stand out prominently; and first, those arising from acidity of milk or
food; vomiting of undigested food or curdled milk, with frequent green,
watery, acid stools, varying in number from five to thirty per day;
child fretful and feverish; can retain nothing on the stomach; food
seems to pass right through the child. I have frequently had the mother
say after twenty-four hours' use of _Cuphea_: "Doctor, the baby is all
right," and a very pleasant greeting it is, as we all know. A second
class is composed of cases in which the stools are decidedly dysenteric,
small, frequent, bloody, with tenesmus and great pain; high fever,
restlessness and sleeplessness. In these two classes _Cuphea_ acts
promptly and generally permanently. It contains a large percentage of
tannic acid, and seems to possess decidedly tonic properties, as
children rally rapidly under its use. It utterly failed me in ordinary
forms of diarrhoea, especially in diarrhoeas from colds, etc.; but
in the classes mentioned I have frequently had it produce obstinate
constipation after several days' use.


ECHINACEA ANGUSTIFOLIA.

NAT. ORD., Compositæ.

COMMON NAME, Pale Purple Cone-flower.

PREPARATION.--The whole plant including the root is pounded to a pulp
and macerated in two parts by weight of alcohol.

     (This rather famous drug first came to notice as "Meyers'
     Blood Purifier;" the proprietor did not know the name of
     the drug used and sent a whole plant to Professors King
     and Lloyd, of Cincinnati, who identified it as _Echinacea
     angustifolia_, commonly known as "cone flower," "black
     Sampson," "nigger head," etc. If we may believe all that
     has been printed about it the remedy is a veritable
     cure-all. The following, however, is a safe guide; it is
     taken from the paper by Dr. J. Willis Candee in
     Transactions, 1898, of the Homoeopathic Medical Society
     of the State of New York, and credited by Dr. Candee to
     Dr. J. C. Fahnstock):

He (Dr. Fahnstock) refers to the clinical application of _Echinacea_,
from personal experience, substantially as follows: Cases of shifting
pains in rheumatism, for which _Puls._ had been unsuccessfully
prescribed, rapidly disappeared under _Echin._ Several cases of acne
resembling that caused by _Bromide of Potassium_, cured. "A great
remedy." When boils progress to the stage where they appear about to
"point" then stop and do not suppurate, _Echinacea_ is the remedy. "In
carbuncles with similar symptoms, a bluish-red color and intense pain,
it will in a few hours make your patient grateful to you." It is of
great value in very fetid ozæna. Beneficial in some cases of
leucorrhoea with discharge bright yellow, as from a suppurating
surface. Very serviceable in gangrene, where it may be classed with
_Rhus_ and _Arsenicum_, perhaps ranking between them. Has attributed to
it unusually good results in a case of tuberculous disease of hip and in
an old, well-dosed case of destructive syphilis of throat. "In
suppurative processes _Echin._ is to be thought of."

In typhoid fever, diphtheria and appendicitis he has failed to
substantiate the claims of other admirers of this remedy.

These clinical hints have been given place as naturally following report
of the proving and also because of their coming from a closely observant
homoeopathist. It is unnecessary at this time to review in detail the
alleged field of usefulness of _Echinacea_. All are familiar with the
published testimonials and indications, some of which would lead one to
think that little else is to be desired with which to combat
degenerative processes in mankind.

On the other hand are those, who, having tried the drug without
satisfactory results, are willing to cast it aside as worthless. To such
it may be well to make these suggestions: 1, to ascertain whether they
have used a reliable preparation, and 2, to refrain from hasty judgment
until guides for prescribing, more accurate than perchance the label on
a bottle, shall have been found and consulted.

My own limited experience would throw no particular light on the
subject. It has, however, served to impress me with confidence in the
remedy and its future. The gist of trustworthy clinical findings may be
stated in two words, antiseptic and alterative.

     (From an article by Dr. H. W. Feller, in the _Eclectic
     Medical Journal_, we quote the following generalities
     concerning this remedy):

If any single statement were to be made concerning the virtues of
_Echinacea_ it would read something like this: "A corrector of the
deprivation of the body fluids;" and even this does not sufficiently
cover the ground. Its extraordinary powers--combining essentially that
formerly included under the terms antiseptic, antifermentative, and
antizymotic--are well shown in its power over changes produced in the
fluids of the body, whether from internal causes or from external
introductions. The changes may be manifested in a disturbed balance of
the fluids resulting in such tissue alterations as are exhibited in
boils, carbuncles, abscesses, or cellular glandular inflammations. They
may be from the introduction of serpent or insect venom, or they may be
due to such fearful poisons as give rise to malignant diphtheria,
cerebro-spinal meningitis, or puerperal and other forms of septicæmia.
Such changes, whether they be septic or of devitalized morbid
accumulations, or alterations in the fluids themselves, appear to have
met their Richmond in _Echinacea_. "Bad blood" so called, asthenia and
adynamia, and particularly a tendency to malignancy in acute and
sub-acute disorders, seem to be special indicators for the use of
_Echinacea_.

     (The _North American Journal of Homoeopathy_, December,
     1896, contains a paper on the drug by Dr. Charles F.
     Otis, from which we quote the following):

I doubt if there are many physicians here assembled, who are general
practitioners, who have not, at some period of their professional lives,
come in contact with one or both of these diseases either in an epidemic
form or isolated cases, and in instances, have met more than their
match; have seen their patients with tongue so swollen that it protruded
from the mouth; with membrane gradually extending from the throat into
the posterior nares, possibly protruding from the nostrils, with the
awful odor so characteristic; with a respiratory sound that told you too
plainly that membrane was extending into the air passages and that the
misery of your patient would soon cease, not because of your ability to
afford relief, but because death would close the scene.

I need not complete the picture by mentioning the enormously high
temperature, the thread-like pulse, the cessation of the action of the
kidneys, the awful agonizing expression of the face, and, perhaps, in
your efforts, intubation had been practiced without good results. It is
in just this class of cases that _Echinacea_ is king. So reliable has
been its action in my hands that I am inclined to give a favorable
prognosis, and if I am so fortunate as to be called early the
application of the drug in question does not permit of the symptoms just
enumerated. The whole case will usually be changed to one of a mild form
followed by a quick recovery.

     (This from a paper by Dr. W. H. Ramey in _Medical
     Gleaner_):

It is a specific, I think, for the condition of the system which sets up
the boil habit. I never have found a case so bad, and I've had some very
severe ones, that an ounce and a half of _Echinacea_, taken in ten-drop
doses four times a day, would not cure. Try it in your cases of
stomatitis with depraved conditions of the system, both internally and
locally. It has done me valuable service in cases of old ulcers and
unhealthy sores, both as local and internal treatment. Then in your
typhoid cases, with the characteristic indication, it is simply a
wonderful remedy. I have seen it step in and restore normal conditions
when it seemed impossible for remedies to act quick enough to prevent a
fatal termination.

     (Dr. S. J. Hogan in _Chicago Medical Times_):

One other thing I would like to tell about it: I had a case I was
treating. Among other things, the patient had on the scalp and at the
margin of the hair on the back of the head a number of wen-like tumors;
since taking _Echinacea_ they have been entirely absorbed.

     (Dr. Joseph Adolphus in _Medical Gleaner_):

I have seen its very beneficial action in two epidemics of smallpox. The
remedy did certainly modify the severity of the disease, restrain
suppuration, check the severity of the symptoms, and promote
convalescence. I knew of several very desperate cases, which I think
would have terminated fatally but for the timely use of _Echinacea_. I
frequently saw cases of severe confluent type, wherein the symptoms were
of a very serious kind, high fever, delirium; some with coma, abominably
offensive odor of body and breath, urine nearly suppressed, eruption
confluent, exceedingly abundant pus, steadily improve under _Echinacea_
tea taken internally and used locally over the entire body. One of the
very striking effects of the _Echinacea_ was to abate the dreadfully
offensive odor of the body and breath and modify the acute severity of
the eruption.

     (The following proving of _Echinacea_, conducted by Dr.
     J. C. Fahnestock, of Piqua, Ohio, was read before the
     American Institute of Homoeopathy, at Atlantic City,
     1899):

It becomes my pleasant duty to place before the American Institute of
Homoeopathy a collection of provings of _Echinacea angustifolia_.

Four species of this genus are recognized. Two of them, _E. Dicksoni_
and _E. dubia_, are native in Mexico.

There are two native in this country, _E. purpurea_, _Moench_. Leaves
rough, often serrate; the lowest ovate, five nerved, veiny, long
petioled; the other ovate-lanceolate; involucre imbricated in three to
five rows; stem smooth, or in one form rough, bristly, as well as the
leaves. Prairies and banks, from western Pennsylvania and Virginia to
Iowa, and southward; occasionally advancing eastward. July--Rays
fifteen to twenty, dull purple (rarely whitish), one to two feet long or
more. Root thick, black, very pungent to the taste, used in popular
medicine under the name of Black Sampson. Very variable, and probably
connects with _E. angustifolia_, described as follows: Leaves, as well
as the slender, simple stem, bristly, hairy, lanceolate and linear
lanceolate, attenuate at base, three nerved, entire; involucre less
imbricated and heads often smaller; rays twelve to fifteen inches, (2)
long, rose color or red. Plains from Illinois and Wisconsin
southward--June to August. This is a brief description of the botany of
the plant under consideration.

Your chairman, T. L. Hazard, in his usual characteristic manner, went
vigorously to work and secured all the provers possible. I was also
fortunate enough to secure a number of provers, besides proving and
reproving it myself. The results of all these provings were handed over
to me to present to you in such form as seemed best.

I must tarry just long enough to preface this collection and tell you
that explicit printed directions were sent to all the superintendents of
these provings. This being of too great length, I will give you the most
important points in these directions, viz.: Let each prover be furnished
with a small blank book, in which shall be written date, name, sex,
residence, height, weight, temperament, color of eyes, color of hair,
complexion; describe former ailments and present physical condition. In
concluding give pulse in different positions, respiration, temperature,
function of digestion, analysis of excretions, especially the urine;
analysis of the blood, family history, habits, idiosyncrasy, etc.

The different colleges and universities were called upon to assist on
these provings. The following institutions responded to the call:
Cleveland, St. Louis, Minneapolis, the Chicago, Iowa City, and Ann
Arbor. None of the eastern institutions responded; don't know whether
dead or just hibernating.

I wish to publicly express my thanks to all who have taken part in
these provings. I think it but just to state that the University of
Michigan furnished the best provings. Thanks also are extended to
Boericke & Tafel for remedy furnished in the [Greek: theta], 3x, 30x,
which were also used in the provings. One lady, who commenced the
proving and had begun to develop valuable provings, contracted a severe
cold and stopped, for which I am very sorry. All the rest of the provers
were males; medical students or physicians. Only a very few symptoms
were produced by the use of the 30x attenuation, a greater number of
provers not recording any at all.

The symptoms here compiled were produced by the 3x attenuation and the
tincture, using from one drop to thirty drops at a dose. In proving and
then compiling the symptoms produced by this drug, I am fully aware of
the many difficulties to be met on every side.

The one great trouble that I find is that those who are unaccustomed to
proving do not observe what really is going on while attempting to make
a proving, and are not capable of expressing the conditions so produced.
I find that there are few who can take drugs and accurately define their
effects. In selecting and discriminating the effects of drugs there must
exist a mental superiority, and no man had this genius so highly
developed as Hahnemann.

After making three different provings upon myself, I have undertaken to
select those symptoms which to the best of my ability were found in all
of these different provings.

I have taken special care not to omit any symptoms, even though it may
have been noticed by but one prover; but in the majority of cases you
will notice the symptoms occurred two or more times in different
individuals, thus confirming the genuineness of the symptoms.

Not giving you the day-book records of these provers, a few remarks,
showing its general action, may not be out of place. As stated before,
only two recorded symptoms after the use of the 30x attenuation.

After taking the tincture, there is soon produced a biting, tingling
sensation of the tongue, lips and fauces, not very much unlike the
sensation produced by _Aconite_. In these provers there soon followed a
sense of fear, with pain about the heart, and accelerated pulse. In a
short time there was noticed a dull pain in both temples, a pressing
pain; then shooting pains, which followed the fifth pair of nerves.

The next symptom produced was an accumulation of sticky mucus in mouth
and fauces. Then a general languor and weakness followed, always worse
in the afternoon. All the limbs felt weak and indisposed to make any
motion, and this was accompanied by sharp, shooting, shifting pains. In
quite a number of cases the appetite was not affected.

Those using sufficient quantity of the tincture had loss of appetite,
with belching of tasteless gas, weakness in the stomach, pain in the
right hypochondriac region, accompanied with gas in the bowels; griping
pains followed by passing offensive flatus, or a loose, yellowish stool,
which always produced great exhaustion. After using the drug several
days the face becomes pale, the pulse very much lessened in frequency,
and a general exhaustion follows like after a severe and long spell of
sickness.

The tongue will then indicate slow digestion, accompanied with belching
of tasteless gas. In most of the provers, however, there was a passing
of very offensive gas and offensive stools.

You will observe that the remedy exerts quite an effect on the kidneys
and bladder, but I am very sorry to say that the urinary analysis made
did not show anything but the variations generally observed in ordinary
health.

I must say that the provers did not go into the details as much as was
desirable. Likewise, I may say the same of the blood tests made, but
what was given is very valuable.

I could give you an expression of its special action, but will merely
give you the symptoms collected and then you can make your own
deductions.


ECHINACEA ANGUSTIFOLIA.

A collection of symptoms from twenty-five different provers,
anatomically arranged:

MIND.

  3 Dullness in head, with cross, irritable feeling.
  2 So nervous could not study.
  3 Confused feeling of the brain.
  2 Felt depressed and much out of sorts.
  3 Felt a mental depression in afternoons.
  1 Senses seem to be numbed.
  5 Drowsy, could not read, drowsiness.
  2 Vertigo when changing position of head.
  3 Drowsy condition with yawning.
  2 Becomes angry when corrected, does not wish to be contradicted.

SENSORIUM.

  5 General depression, with weakness.
  8 General dullness and drowsiness.
  4 General dullness, unable to apply the mind.
  5 Does not wish to think or study.
  3 Restless, wakes often in the night.
  2 Dull headache, felt as if brain was too large, with every
    beat of heart.
  5 Sleep full of dreams.

INNER HEAD.

  5 Dull pain in brain, full feeling.
  5 Dull frontal headache, especially over left eye, which
    was relieved in open air.
  2 Severe headache in vertex, better by rest in bed.
  5 Dull headache above eyes.
  4 Dull throbbing headache, worse through temples.
  3 Head feels too large.
  1 Dull headache, worse in evening.
  2 Dull headache, worse in right temple, with sharp pain.
  3 Dull pain in occiput.
  3 Dull headache, with dizziness.

OUTER HEAD.

  3 Constant dull pressing pain in both temples.
  2 Shooting pains through temples.
  2 Dull occipital headache.
  3 Constant dull pain in temples, better at rest and pressure.
  2 Head feels as big as a windmill, with mental depression.

EYES.

  2 Eyes ache when reading.
  1 Tires me dreadfully to hold a book and read.
  1 Eyes pain on looking at an object and will fill with tears,
  closing them relieves.
  1 Sleepy sensation in eyes, but cannot sleep.
  1 Pains back of right eye.
  1 Sense of heat in eyes when closing them.
  2 Dull pain in both eyes.
  1 Lachrymation from cold air.
  2 Sharp pains in eyes and temples.

EAR.

  2 Shooting pain in right ear.

NOSE.

  2 Stuffiness of nostrils, with mucus in nares and pharynx.
  4 Full feeling in nose as if it would close up.
  2 Full feeling of nose, obliged to blow nose, but does not
    relieve.
  2 Nostrils sore.
  2 Mucus discharge from right nostril.
  2 Rawness of right nostril, sensitive to cold, which cause a
  flow of mucus.
  1 Bleeding from right nostril.
  1 Right nostril sore, when picking causes hæmorrhage.
  1 Headache over eyes, with sneezing.

FACE.

  2 Paleness of face when head aches.
  1 Fine eruptions on forehead and cheeks.
  2 Vomiting with pale face.

TEETH.

  2 Darting pains in the teeth, worse on right side.
  3 Neuralgic pains in superior and inferior maxilla.
  2 Dull aching of the teeth.

TONGUE.

  2 White coating of tongue in the mornings, with white
    frothy mucus in mouth.
  2 Slight burning of tongue.
  2 Whitish coat of tongue, with red edges.

MOUTH.

  2 Accumulation of sticky, white mucus.
  3 Eructation of tasteless gas.
  2 Burning of the tongue, with increased saliva.
  1 Dry sensation in back part of mouth.
  2 Burning peppery taste when taking remedy.
  3 Bad taste in the mouth in the morning.
  3 A metallic taste.
  3 Belching of gas which tastes of the food eaten.
  2 Dryness of the mouth.
  3 Sour eructation.
  1 Sour eructation, which caused burning of throat.

THROAT.

  3 Accumulation of mucus in throat.
  1 Mucus in throat, with raw sensation.
  1 After vomiting of sour mucus, throat burns.
  2 Soreness of throat, worse on left side.

DESIRE.

  5 Loss of appetite.
  2 Desire for cold water.

EATING.

  3 Nausea, could not eat.
  5 Loss of appetite.

NAUSEA AND VOMITING.

  2 Nausea before going to bed, which was always better
    lying down.
  2 After eating stomach and abdomen fill with gas.
  3 After eating belching, which tastes of food eaten.
  2 Nausea, with eructation of gas.

STOMACH.

  1 Stomach distended with gas, not relieved by belching.
  4 Belching of tasteless gas.
  2 Sense of something large and hard in stomach.
  2 Belching of gas and at same time passing flatus.
  3 Sour stomach, "heart burn," with belching of gas.
  1 Relaxed feeling of the stomach.
  1 Pain in stomach, going down through bowels, followed
    by diarrhoea.
  3 Dull pain in stomach.

HYPOCHONDRIA.

  5 Pain in right hypochondria.

ABDOMEN.

  5 Full feeling in abdomen, with borborygmus.
  2 Pain about umbilicus, relieved by bending double.
  2 Pain in abdomen, sharp cutting, coming and going suddenly.
  1 Pain in left illiac fossa.

URINE.

  6 Desire for frequent urination.
  4 Urine increased.
  1 Involuntary urination "in spite of myself."
  2 Sense of heat while passing urine.
  3 Urine pale and copious.
  1 Urine scanty and dark in color.
  2 Pain and burning on urination.

MALE SEX ORGAN.

  1 Soreness in perineum.
  2 Testicles drawn up and sore.
  1 Pain in meatus while urinating.
  2 Pain across perineum.
  2 Perineum seems stretched.
  1 Pain in right spermatic cord.

FEMALE SEX ORGAN.

  1 Mucus from vagina in evening.
  1 Pain in right illiac region, which seems deep, lasting but a short
    time.

LARYNX.

  2 Irritation of larynx.
  1 Voice husky.

COUGH.

  2 Constant clearing of mucus from throat.
  2 Mucus comes in throat while in bed, must cough to clear throat.

LUNGS.

  2 Full feeling in upper part of lungs.
  2 Pain in region of diaphragm.
  1 Pain in right lung.

HEART AND PULSE.

  2 Slight pain over heart.
  1 Rapid beating of heart.
  4 Heart's action increased.
  2 Heart's action decreased.
  2 Anxiety about the heart.

CHEST.

  2 Pain in pectoral muscles.
  1 Sore feeling in the chest.
  1 Feels like lump in chest.
  2 Feeling of a lump under sternum.

NECK AND BACK.

  3 Pain in small of back over kidneys.
  6 Dull pain in small of back.
  3 Pain in back of neck.
  4 Pain in lumbar region, worse from stooping.

UPPER LIMBS.

  3 Pain in right thumb.
  2 Sharp pain in left elbow.
  2 Pain in right shoulder, going down to fingers.
  2 Sharp pain in left arm, going down to fingers, with loss of muscular
    power.
  2 Cold hands.
  4 Pain in wrists and fingers.
  2 Pain in left shoulder, better by rest and warmth.

LOWER LIMBS.

  2 Cold feet.
  2 Pain back of left knee.
  2 Sharp shooting pain in legs.
  1 Extremities cold.
  3 Left hip and knee pains.
  2 Pain in right thigh.
  2 Pain in right leg.

LIMBS IN GENERAL.

  7 General weakness of limbs.
  1 Pain between shoulders, which extend to axilla and down the arms.

POSITION.

  Pains and sickness of stomach better by lying down.

NERVES.

  7 Exhausted, tired feeling.
  5 Muscular weakness.
  2 Felt as if I had been sick for a long time.
  6 General aching all over, with exhaustion.

SLEEP.

  2 General languor, sleepy.
  3 Sleep disturbed, wakes often.
  5 Sleep full of dreams.
  1 Dreams about exciting things all night.
  2 Dreams of dead relations.

TIME.

  Worse after eating.
  Worse in evenings.
  Worse after physical or mental labor.
  Better at rest.

CHILLS.

  1 Chills up the back.
  1 Cold flashes all over the back.
  2 General chilliness with nausea.

SKIN.

  3 Intense itching and burning of skin on neck.
  1 Little papules on skin, with redness, feeling like nettles;
    this occurred on the fifth day of the proving.
  1 Skin dry.
  2 Small red pimples on neck and face.

BLOOD.

  2 After proving found a diminution of red corpuscles.


EPIGEA REPENS.

NAT. ORD., Ericaceæ.

COMMON NAMES, Trailing Arbutus. Ground Laurel. Gravel Root.

PREPARATION.--The fresh leaves are pounded to a pulp and macerated in
two parts by weight of alcohol.

     (In the subjoined paper by Dr. E. M. Hale, _North
     American Journal of Homoeopathy_, 1869, the old
     doctrine of signatures seems to crop out again.)

The _Gravel Root_ has long had some reputation in urinary difficulties,
and even in calculous affections. The common appellation of "Gravel
root" shows that the popular belief points in the direction of its use.

I have never tested its virtues but in one instance, and its effects
seemed to be so decided and curative that I deem the case worthy of
publication.

A young man, aged twenty-three, applied for treatment of a long array of
symptoms, some of which seemed to indicate _enlargement of the
prostate_, and others a _vesical catarrh_.

The _quantity_ of urine was nearly normal.

The _quality_ was decidedly abnormal. It contained a large amount of
mucus, the phosphates, some blood, and a little pus. It was dark red,
colored blue litmus paper red (showing its acid condition).

The pain was similar to a vesical tenesmus, a pain in the region of the
neck of the bladder and prostate gland. Pressure in the perineum was
painful.

He had been under the most atrocious allopathic treatment; had been
drugged with copaiva, spts. nitric.-dulc., turpentine, tincture muriate
of iron, and other diuretics in enormous doses.

I commenced the treatment with _Sulphur_ 30th, three doses a day for a
week.

By this time he had eliminated the drug-poisons from his system, and the
real symptoms of the malady began to appear uncomplicated. The blood and
pus disappeared from the urine, there was less mucus, and the urine was
of a lighter color.

A red, sandy sediment, however, remained. This sediment was not "gritty"
under the finger, at least no such sensation was perceptible.

Second prescription: _Lycopodium_ 30th and 6th, the former in the
morning, the latter in evening, for a week. No improvement except a
slight diminution of the sediment.

No medicine was given for four days, at which time there appeared
dysuria, pain in the region of the prostate, mucous sediment, and
itching at the orifice of the urethra.

While undecided as to the next prescription, I happened to take up a
vial of tincture _Epigea repens_, which I had prepared from the fresh
plant, while on a visit to Mackinaw six months before. Knowing the high
estimate placed on this plant, by the people, in the treatment of gravel
I resolved to test its virtues. Ten drops of the mother tincture were
prescribed, to be taken every four hours.

Two days afterwards my patient brought me several small brownish
particles, having the appearance of fine sand. When crushed and pressed
between the fingers they had a decidedly gritty feel. Under the
microscope they had the appearance of rough coarse sand. The discharge
of calculi kept up for nearly a week, under the use of the _Epigea_, and
then ceased, and with it all the symptoms of irritation of the bladder.

It is just possible that the discharge of gravel may have been a
coincidence. It is equally possible that the _Lycopodium_ acted
curatively; but I am inclined to believe their disintegration and
expulsion was caused or aided by the use of the last medicine.

Further observations are needed to place the curative powers of this
plant on a certain basis.


ERYNGIUM AQUATICUM.

NAT. ORD., Umbeliferæ.

COMMON NAMES, Button Snakeroot. Water Eryngo.

PREPARATION.--The fresh root is pounded to a pulp and macerated in two
parts by weight of alcohol.

     (Although a well-known remedy, the following concerning
     its early history may not be out of place here. It is
     from Thomas' _Additions_.)

"For spermatorrhoea properly so called, or emission of semen without
erections, there is no remedy which has yet received the sanction of
experience."--_Repertory._

"We have one, however, to propose for trial--it is the _Eryngium
aquaticum_, which has two remarkable cures, reported by Dr. Parks
(Pharmacentist, Cin.), to recommend it.

"CASE I.--A married man injured his testicles by jumping upon a horse;
this was followed by a discharge of what was considered semen for
fifteen years, during which time he was treated allopathically and
homoeopathically. Dr. Parks exhibited a number of the usual remedies
without permanent benefit. He then gave a half-grain dose, three times a
day, of the third decimal trituration of the '_Eryngium aquaticum_.' In
five days the emissions were entirely suppressed, and have not returned
to this time (over two years ago). The emissions were without erections
day or night, and followed by great lassitude.

"CASE II.--A married man, not conscious of having sustained any injury,
was troubled for eight or ten years with emissions at night--with
erections. The semen also passed by day with the urine. The loss of
semen was followed by great lassitude and depression, continuing from
twelve to forty-eight hours. There was also partial impotence. Had been
treated allopathically. Dr. Parks gave him Phos. acid for two weeks,
without material benefit. He then exhibited the _Eryngium aquaticum_, as
above, with the like excellent and prompt result."[I]

    [I] Drs. Hill and Hunt, Homoeopathic Surgery.

I used this remedy with a patient who was quite broken down from
spermatorrhoea; the emissions left him, but he suffered from vertigo
and dim-sightedness whenever he took a dose of the medicine. He is now
well through the use of other medicines. Our English _Eryngo_--the _E.
maritimum_, is noted as an aphrodisiac, and is very similar in
appearance to the _Eryngium aquaticum_.


EUPHORBIA COROLLATA.

NAT. ORD., Euphorbiaceæ.

COMMON NAMES, Milk Weed. Wild Ipecac. Blooming or Flowering Spurge.

PREPARATION.--The fresh root is pounded to a pulp and macerated in two
parts by weight of alcohol.

     (In _North American Journal of Homoeopathy_, Dr. E. M.
     Hale has, among other things, the following to say of
     this drug):

Its action on the system is intense and peculiar. It is called by the
country people by the expressive name of _Go-quick_, referring to its
quick and prompt action. I am indebted to Dr. A. R. Brown, of
Litchfield, Mich., for many interesting facts relating to its action. It
is considered, by those who use it, as the most powerful "revulsive
agent" in their Materia Medica, in all cases of local congestion,
especially of the lungs and head; also in inflammation of the pleura,
lungs, and liver, and is used as a substitute for bleeding and Calomel.
Its admirers allege that it will certainly _arrest_ the progress of the
above affections in a few hours, and break up all simple fevers. This is
of course erroneous, but it reminds one of the Helleborine of the
ancients, so graphically described by Hahnemann. In fact no drug with
which I am acquainted so much resembles the _Veratrum album_.


FAGOPYRUM.

NAT. ORD., Polygonaceæ.

COMMON NAME, Buckwheat.

PREPARATION.--The fresh mature plant is pounded to a pulp and macerated
in two parts by weight of alcohol.

     (The following paper was published in the Transactions of
     the Homoeopathic Society of Maine in 1895. It is by Dr.
     D. C. Perkins, of Rockland, Me.)

There is, perhaps, no well proven remedy in the Materia Medica, of equal
value to that of which I present a brief study, that has been so wholly
overlooked by the homoeopathic profession. There certainly is none
which possesses a more marked individuality, and which more fully fills
a place by itself. It is safe to say that not one in ten of those who
practice the healing art has ever used it or is familiar with its
pathogenesis. Having not unfrequently cured cases with it, which had
refused to yield to other remedies apparently well indicated, I have
come to regard it as among the important drugs in our super-abundant
Materia Medica. Its effects upon mental conditions are marked by
depression of spirits, irritability, inability to study, or to remember
what has been read, bringing to our minds _Aconite_, _Bryonia_,
_Chamomilla_, _Coffea_, _Colocynth_, _Ignatia_, _Lachesis_, _Mercury_,
_Nux vomica_, _Staphisagria_, _Stramonium_, and _Veratrum_. Its effects
upon the head are deep-seated and persistent. There is vertigo,
confusion, severe pain in many parts of head, with upward pressure
described as of a bursting character. The pain may be in forehead, back
of eyes, through temporal region on either side, but always of a
pressive or bursting nature. For congestive headaches it is as valuable
as _Belladonna_, _Glonoine_, _Nux vomica_, or _Sepia_.

In and about the eyes there is itching, smarting, swelling, heat and
soreness; the itching being especially marked and usually regarded as
characteristic. The last named symptom is no less prominent in
affections of the ears, as has often been shown in the efficacy of
buckwheat flour in frost-bites, or erysipelas of those useful organs,
from time immemorial. Here the similarity to _Agaricus_ will readily be
recognized. The nose does not escape. It is swollen, red, inflamed and
sore. There is at first fluent coryza with sneezing, followed by
fulness, dryness and the formation of crusts. Nor is the burning absent
which has been elsewhere noted. There is much soreness and somewhat
persistent pain from even gentle pressure.

The face is pale or unevenly flushed, with dark semi-circles below the
eyes. Later, the face becomes swollen, hot and dry, as though severely
sunburnt, and the lips are cracked and sore. The mouth feels dry and
hot, and yet saliva is not wanting. There is soreness and swelling of
roof of mouth, and the tongue is red and fissured along its edges. The
bad taste in the morning reminds us of _Pulsatilla_.

In the throat, there is soreness with pain just back of the isthmus of
the fauces, a feeling of excoriation and soreness extending deep down in
the pharynx. The uvula is elongated, the tonsils are swollen and red,
there is a sensation of rawness in the throat strikingly reminding us of
_Phytolacca_. Externally, there is scarlet redness of the neck below the
mastoid process, throbbing of the carotids, the neck feels tired, the
head heavy and the parotid glands are swollen and painful. It is
unnecessary to name the remedy having similar symptoms.

While the symptoms produced on the digestive tract are not characterized
by that intensity noted elsewhere, they are still valuable. There is
persistent morning nausea which should lead us to study this remedy in
the vomiting of pregnancy. Contrary to _Lycopodium_ and _Nux moschata_
the appetite is improved by eating. The empty or "all-gone" feeling at
the stomach is like that of _Sepia_.

In the abdomen there is fulness and pain but no rumbling. Discharges of
flatus are frequent and annoying. The region of the liver is painful,
tender and there is aggravation from pressure, compelling the patient to
lie on the left side. The stools are pappy, or watery, profuse,
offensive and followed by tenesmus.

On the male genital organs there is profuse perspiration of an offensive
odor. The urine is scalding, and pain extends from testicles to abdomen.
In females the drug acts with force upon the right ovary, producing pain
of a bruised or burning character, noted particularly when walking.
There is pruritus with slight yellow leucorrhoea, the discharge being
more noticed when at rest than when exercising. So far as known this
latter symptom does not occur under the action of any other remedy.

In the chest we find a heavy, pulsating pain extending to all its parts.
This is persistent, and is worse from a deep inspiration. Around the
heart there are dull pains with oppression and occasional sharp pains
passing through the heart. Pressure with the hand increases the
oppression. The pulse is increased but is extremely variable. There is
reason to believe that _Cactus grandiflora_, or _Spigelia_ are often
given in affections of the heart, where _Fagopyrum_, if given, would
accomplish better results.

On the muscular system the action of the remedy stands out in bold
relief. There is stiffness and soreness of all the muscles of the neck,
with pain, and a feeling as if the neck would hardly support the head.
Pains extend from occiput to back of neck and are relieved by bending
the head backward. There are dull pains in small of back, with stitching
pains in the region of the kidneys. Pains with occasional sharp stitches
extend from the arms to muscles of both sides of chest. Rheumatic pains
in the shoulders of a dull aching character. Stinging and burning pains
extend the whole length of fingers, aggravated by motion. Streaking
pains pass through arms and legs with sharp pains extending to feet.
Pains extend from hips to small of back, and these also frequently run
down to the feet. In the knees there is dull pain and weakness, while
deep in the limbs there is burning and stinging. There is numbness in
the limbs, with dragging in the joints, especially right knee, hip and
elbow. Stooping to write causes constant severe pain through chest and
in region of liver. This group of symptoms gives _Fagopyrum_ a striking
individuality and establishes it in an uncontested position among the
long list of remedies prescribed for rheumatic complaints.

Scarcely less important are the symptoms of the skin. There is intense
itching of the arms and legs, becoming worse toward evening. Blotches
like flea-bites appear in many localities, sometimes all over the body,
are sore to the touch and are multiplied by scratching. These eruptions
are persistent and the itching is intense. Blind boils may be developed
and attain a large size. The itching of the face is especially marked
about the roots of the whiskers. Itching of the hands which is "deep in"
is persistent and annoying, this condition being supposed to be the
result of irritation of the coats of the arteries.

The sleepiness is unlike that of _Belladonna_, _Nux vomica_, _Sepia_ or
_Sulphur_, occurring early in the evening and characterized by
stretching and yawning. It is not profound, and when the mind is
diverted the patient gets wide awake, but soon relapses unless
conversation is continued. In bed, sleep is disturbed by troublesome
dreams and frequent waking. Aggravations occur after retiring, ascending
stairs, from deep inspiration, walking in bright sunlight, lying on
right side, riding in cars, and when stooping or writing. Ameliorations
occur after taking coffee, from cold applications, from motion in cold
air, and from sitting still in warm room.


FAGUS SYLVATICUS.

NAT. ORD., Cupuliferæ.

COMMON NAME, European Beech.

PREPARATION.--The Beech Nuts are pounded to a pulp and macerated in five
parts by weight of alcohol.

     (In volume XIII of the _American Observer_, Dr. E. W.
     Berridge, contributes the following concerning the action
     of _Fagus sylvaticus_ or Beech nuts):


BEECH NUTS. (From _Medical Museum_--_London, 1781_--_vol. ii., pp. 97,
294._) From a dissertation on hydrophobia, by Christian Frederick
Seleg, M. D., of Enbenstoff, in Saxony, printed in Eslong, in 1762.

A boy aged 13 had eaten four days ago a large quantity of beech nuts. I
found him in great pain, languid, and terrified with apprehensions of
present death. Pulse very unequal, sometimes extremely quick, sometimes
languid and intermittent; skin burning violently; mouth flowing with
froth and saliva, intolerable thirst, entreating for drink, but as soon
as any liquid was brought he seemed to shudder with equal horror, as if
he had been eating unripe grapes. Soon after eating the nuts he had been
seized with torpor, gloominess and dread of liquids. He had not been
bitten by any rabid animal.

Next (5th) day, early in the morning, he was the same, but seemed to
talk more in his wildness and perturbation of mind, and his mouth flowed
with foam more abundantly; the urine he had voided by night was red and
firey, depositing a copious turbid white sediment, resembling an
emulsion of beech nuts, subsiding as deep as the breadth of the finger
at the bottom of the vessel. A few hours before he died he vomited a
porraceous bile, after which he died quietly.

The author in the _original_ work gives a number of fatal cases of
_spontaneous_ hydrophobia. This work should be examined.

John Bauhin (_Hist. Plants_, vol. i, pp. 2, 121) says that the nuts will
disorder the head like darnel; hogs grow stupid and drowsy by feeding on
them.

Ray (_Hist. of Plants_, tom. ii, p. 1382) and Mangetus (_Biblioth.
Pharm._, vol. i, p. 910) says the same.


FRAXINUS EXCELSIOR.

NAT. ORD., Oleaceæ.

COMMON NAME, European Ash.

PREPARATION.--The fresh leaves are pounded to a pulp and macerated with
two parts by weight of alcohol.

     (In the _Union Médicale_, November, 1852, two French
     physicians detailed several cases of gout and rheumatism
     treated with _Fraxinus excelsior_, or ash leaves, one of
     Rademacher's favorite remedies. Of the two physicians,
     one of them, Dr. Peyraud, was himself relieved of the
     gout by this treatment.)

Ash-leaves were highly recommended by Rademacher, and have been quite
extensively used in Germany on his suggestion. In the _Union Médicale_
for Nov. 27, 1852, two French physicians, Drs. Pouget and Peyraud,
detailed several cases of gout and rheumatism cured by an infusion of
ash-leaves in boiling water. Dr. Peyraud himself was one of those
relieved.

"In 1842, Dr. Peyraud had his first attack of gout, which was severe,
and lasted for twenty-five days. During the three following years the
attacks increased in frequency and severity. Having derived little
benefit from the remedial means which he had resorted to, he listened to
the suggestion of one of his patients, an inhabitant of the department
of Dordogne, in France, who advised him to try an infusion of
ash-leaves, informing him, at the same time, that his forefathers had
been cured by this prescription, and that many of the country people got
rid of 'their pains' by employing it. Dr. Peyraud took the infusion of
ash-leaves and from 1845 to 1849 had no fit of gout. He then had an
attack, which yielded in five days to the infusion of ash-leaves, used
under the observation of Dr. Pouget. These circumstances recalled to the
recollection of Dr. Pouget a fact which he might otherwise never again
have considered. It was this: that when he was a physician at Soréze, in
1824, the peasants of that place had spoken to him of the great power
which an infusion of ash-leaves had in driving away pains. He afterwards
discovered that it had been used forty years ago as a gout-specific by
the peasants of Auvergne.

"A commercial traveller, who had been gouty for twenty years, and had
saturated himself with the syrup of Boubée and other vaunted specifics,
consulted Dr. Pouget. At this time he was an almost constant prisoner in
his room with successive attacks. After eleven days' use of the
infusion, he was able to walk two kilomètres (one and a quarter English
miles); in fifteen days he resumed his journeys, and was able to travel
without suffering, by diligence, from Bordeaux to Quimper.

"Several other cases are detailed, some of them acute, and others
chronic. Articular rheumatism, in numerous instances, was also benefited
by the infusion of ash-leaves."


FUCUS VESICULOSIS.

NAT. ORD., Algæ.

COMMON NAMES, Sea-wrack. Bladder-wrack. Sea-kelp.

PREPARATION.--The fresh alga gathered in May or June are pounded to a
pulp and macerated in two parts by weight of alcohol.

     (The following letter, by Dr. J. Herbert Knapp to the
     _Homoeopathic Recorder_, was published in 1896):

After treating many cases of exophthalmic goitre, I have come to the
conclusion that I have found a specific for that disease in _Fucus
vesiculosis_ (sea-wrack). I might record one case. Mrs. Mary B., æt. 24
years, German, came into my clinic at the Brooklyn E. D. Homoeopathic
Dispensary to be treated for swelling of the neck of several years'
duration. I gave her the tincture of _Fucus ves._, thirty drops three
times a day. The treatment began December 1, 1895, and patient was
discharged cured, on October 2, 1896. Would be pleased to hear from any
others who have had any experience with _Fucus vesiculosis_.

     (The foregoing brought out this by Dr. R. N. Foster, of
     Chicago):

It gives me great pleasure to be able to say a word confirmatory of the
remarks made in your December issue by J. Herbert Knapp, M. D.,
respecting the above named drug.

Twenty years ago, while turning over the pages of that very useful book,
"The American Eclectic Dispensatory," by John King, M. D., I chanced to
notice the following sentences: "_Fucus vesiculosis_, sea-wrack, or
bladder-wrack,... has a peculiar odor, and a nauseous saline taste....
The charcoal of this plant has long had the reputation of a deobstruent,
and been given in goitre and scrofulous swelling."

So far as I now remember, this is the only hint I ever received which
led me to try the drug in goitre. At the same time, I do not feel sure
of this. Perhaps I had met in some medical journal a statement
respecting the relation of this drug to goitre, which fact led me to
look it up in the "Eclectic Dispensatory." But if so, I cannot recall
the authority. At all events, I was led to try the remedy in a
pronounced case of goitre, with such good results that I have never
since given any other remedy for that disease, either in the
exophthalmic or in the uncomplicated form. And what is more, I have
never known it to fail to cure when the patient was under thirty years
of age. After that time of life, or about that period, it seems to be no
longer efficacious.

I have now used it on more than twenty-four cases, with the same
unvarying result, and never with any other result--that is, no
unpleasant consequences have ever accompanied or followed its use.

I published this fact in the _Medical Investigator_ after I had used it
in a few cases, and again announced it in the Chicago Homoeopathic
Medical Society still later; and again have frequently repeated it with
growing confidence and of greater numbers of cases in medical societies,
in colleges, and in private conversation with physicians.

And yet the fact is so utterly unknown that your journal publishes Dr.
Knapp's inquiry respecting it, which shows how easily a good thing may
be forgotten, and how readily a genuine specific may be superseded by a
host of abortive procedures right under the eyes of the profession. It
is most probable that more real good things have been forgotten or cast
aside in medicine than it now, or at any one time, possesses.

Respecting this _Fucus vesiculosis_ and its use in goitre, I would like
to add a few words. The drug is of variable quality. If one specimen
fails to give satisfaction it ought to be discarded and another tried.
The pharmacist must be importuned to make special efforts to give us an
article that is not inert, but contains all the activity that belongs to
the drug.

Time is required for effecting a cure. This varies according to the age
and size of the goitre. Three months may suffice for a small goitre of
one year's growth. Six months may be required for one twice as large and
of longer standing. A year and a half is the longest period during which
I have had to continue the medicine. But during all that time the goitre
was manifestly diminishing.

The dose is a teaspoonful of the tincture twice or three times daily, in
a well-developed case. Half a teaspoonful twice a day will answer in
recent cases.

Smaller doses seem not to produce any effect.

The medicine is very unpleasant to the taste, but causes no disturbance
after it has been taken. It ought to be taken, each dose in about two
ounces of water, and preferably between meals.


GAULTHERIA.

NAT. ORD., Ericaceæ.

COMMON NAME, Wintergreen.

PREPARATION.--The distilled oil from the leaves of Gaultheria procumbens
is used and dispensed in one or two drop tablets.

     (These two papers were contributed to the _Homoeopathic
     Recorder_, 1894, by Dr. Benj. F. Lang, York, Nebraska, on
     the action of _Gaultheria_.)

My attention was first called to its use about ten years ago in southern
Ohio, where I received most pleasing results in the treatment of
inflammatory rheumatism. Afterwards to a somewhat more disagreeable
class of complaints in form of neuralgia. While I am not a champion of
any specific, I want to say that this drug has given me the quickest and
most satisfactory results of any remedy in the Materia Medica. If there
is anything that a man wants relief from quick and "now," it is from
these excruciating pains. Often was I called to treat some obstinate
cases of ciliary neuralgia, or facial, or in fact nearly every form of
neuralgia, and found my skill taxed to its utmost to bring out the balm.
Did I find it in the homoeopathic indicated remedy? I trust so, but
not in any Materia Medica. I don't say but what I got some results from
them, but I found it in this a "helper;" it came to my relief
immediately and to the great comfort of the patient. In severest cases
of neuralgias of the head and face it would do its work quick and well.
Equally well has it served me in very severe cases of neuralgia of
stomach and bowels, while for the past few years it has done faithful
work in ovarian and uterine neuralgias following or preceding difficult
menstruation. I have many a dear friend to-day whose relief from
suffering was found in this remedy.

I am satisfied that it should be given a prominent place in our Materia
Medica. Lest this article should become tedious, I will cite a few
cases.

Mr. A., travelling man from Chicago, a few years ago called on me for
temporary relief of a severe case of ciliary neuralgia; said he had
suffered for many years with it, every spring especially, and that he
had consulted great numbers of physicians of Chicago, Milwaukee and
Cincinnati, and, as he said, "had taken bushels of drugs, both old and
new school," with only temporary relief. So he expected nothing more, as
he was told he must wear it out. I told him I thought I could give him
relief. I furnished him one-half ounce of _Gaultheria_, with directions
to take; did not see him again for two years, when he came into my
office one day and greeted me by saying I was the only man that could
ever give him any permanent relief from his sufferings; that he never
had any return after first day taking medicine, and unlike most patrons
wanted to make me a present of a $5 (five dollar bill), which of course
no doctor refuses. I cite this first, as it was of long standing and had
tested the ability of a number of prominent men.

Miss B., dressmaker, came to me suffering terribly with facial neuralgia
and greeted me similar to No. 1; that she expected nothing but temporary
relief, as she had been afflicted for a long time. Gave her two (2)
drachms of oil W.; told her to take one dose immediately and another in
two hours if the pain did not quiet down. She was careful to ask if it
was an opiate, as she objected to that. I assured her it was not; saw
her next day, said that pain disappeared and had not returned. I was
acquainted with the lady for three and one-half years, and she only had
one return of the disease, which the same remedy relieved immediately.
Many cases more could I cite in which it never has failed me.

Mrs. G., No. 3. I was called to relieve a severe case of neuralgia of
stomach and bowels this last summer, who had been under the care of two
of my worthy competitors. They had exhausted their pill case, and for
about three weeks the poor woman had suffered everything but death
itself. After diagnosing the case I put her on this remedy, and in two
hours she was relieved and after two days was able to be about, and was
cured shortly by no other remedy than it. I want to say you will find a
true friend in this remedy in all forms of neuralgia, and only give a
few suggestions now; but if it should be necessary could give scores to
prove its value.

I mentioned in the beginning that it had been of great value in
inflammatory rheumatism. So it has, and will give later many cases of
immediate and permanent relief if it would be of any value to the
profession. A word as to the best way of giving the drug. I have found
that the dose should never be less than five drops, and if pain is
severe fifteen drops repeated in half hour; afterward two hours apart.
For adult it may be necessary to give twenty drops at first. It always
should be dropped on sugar and taken.

One suggestion: I would like to have it put in a tablet of about two to
five drops pure oil, as I think it could be taken more satisfactorily.
While the crude oil is very pleasant to take at first, yet, on account
of its strong odor, will nauseate after awhile if not removed from room.
I am confident that if you make this into a tablet and place it among
your remedies you would have a weapon that you could place into the
hands of doctors of untold value in these troubles.

     (The latter part of the foregoing communication was
     addressed to Messrs. Boericke & Tafel, homoeopathic
     pharmacists. This was followed by a second communication
     reading as follows):

Since the few lines written for the last issue of _Recorder_ on
_Gaultheria_ in treatment of neuralgia, I have been asked to write my
experience with it in inflammatory rheumatism.

It has never failed me in this terrible disease to give relief. My
experience with it dates back to the fall of 1884, in Ross county, Ohio,
where I was called to treat a very stubborn case, then under the
treatment of one of my old school friends. The patient, a lady about
fifty years old, had suffered with two previous attacks, lasting about
three months each time. At the time I was called to treat her she had
been confined to bed about four weeks. She was suffering intensely, the
joints of upper and lower limbs being swollen and extremely tender; in
fact, so sensitive that one could scarcely walk about the bed without
causing great suffering; temperature, 103; pulse weak and intermittent.
At my first visit, 2:30 P.M., I ordered all of the joints to be wrapped
with cotton, to exclude all air. I then gave her _Bry._ On my return,
next day, I did not find much improvement, excepting the nausea, which
was due to heroic drugging she had been subjected to. Continued _Bry._
The next day the appetite some better, but joints still very tender;
temperature and pulse about the same; some difficulty in respiration. I
then resolved to try _Gaultheria_. I left one drachm vial of the remedy
and ordered the same to be divided into two equal doses, one-half at one
o'clock P.M., the balance at five o'clock P.M.

At about 7:30 of the same evening a messenger came into town in great
haste, saying my patient was failing very fast, and requested me to come
out as soon as possible. On my arrival at the home I found the patient
sitting by the fire. The husband informed me that he thought she was
losing her mind. I asked her why she was out of bed; she said she saw no
reason for staying in bed after a patient was well, and further said
that about one hour after taking the first dose she began to move
easily, and after taking second dose all of the soreness and swelling
left the joints. She also said she was all right; that we need not feel
alarmed about her. I made only one visit after; continued the same
remedy; there were no relapses.

No. 2. A prominent woman in Nebraska had been under treatment for ten
days with free old-line medication, Dover's powders and _Morphia_ as
palliatives. Husband consulted me to know whether anything could be
given to relieve her suffering. I called and found her with temperature
102, pulse 105, left (hand) fingers and elbow joints swollen, very
sensitive to touch or movement. I at once assured her that I thought she
would get relief without any more _Morphia_. Gave her one-half drachm
_Gaultheria_ and requested her to take twenty drops in two hours if pain
and soreness was not relieved. This was about 4 P.M. I met her husband
next morning on street on my way to visit her again and he said "that he
hardly thought it necessary, as his wife was relieved in about one hour
after taking first dose and felt no pain after second, and that she was
up dressing her hair when he left home." She had a slight return on
account of overwork, but remedy always gave relief and made firm patrons
of one of our best families for me. I always advise patients to wrap
the joints with cotton to exclude air and advise them to keep quiet.

No. 3. Young man, twenty-eight; had two attacks before, one lasting
three months, the second ten weeks. This was the worst case that I have
ever treated. As the heart was very weak, pulse intermittent, I put him
on the remedy, _Gaultheria_, with almost immediate relief, but second
day there was relapse, which again responded immediately to treatment by
same remedy; with this, or in connection with this remedy, I used some
_Bry._ 3 and _Rhus tox._ 3. I dismissed him in ten days, more than
pleased, as we were always able to control the pain immediately without
any other remedy than _Gaultheria_.

I cite these cases among the many that I have had, and have never failed
to get good results in any; will say that I give any other remedy after
soreness and swelling are removed that may be indicated, always taking
the necessary precaution to exclude all air from parts affected and to
keep them warm. About three hours apart is as often as I give remedy,
and always careful to give it on sugar and remove it from room, with
_spoon used_.

No. 4. Since my article on neuralgia I had a quite severe case of
sciatica that had taxed the skill of one of my worthy competitors for
nearly two months without any good results; he was about to go to Hot
Springs for some relief. Meeting me on the street, wanted to know if I
thought any of my "little pills or drops would give any relief." I
assured him that I was quite positive that I could. He could hardly move
about, and suffered very much if he did; he came and got a prescription
and found relief to his great astonishment almost immediately; has had
it refilled twice and has worked every day; he takes the remedy morning
and night; there is no pain or soreness, nor has there been any after
first day, only if he sneezes or gets the leg cramped there seems to be
slight contraction of nerve, but the remedy has done most satisfactory
work in this case and gained a valuable family.

I hope these few cases may be of some benefit to the readers of the
_Recorder_: 1. Be careful to observe the rule that if remedy should
nauseate cease giving for twelve or twenty-four hours. 2. Always give on
sugar or in tablets. 3. Remove it immediately from room after
administering. 4. Cover joints to exclude air and keep them warm. 5.
Give any other indicated remedy.


HELODERMA HORRIDUS.

PREPARATION.--The virus, obtained by irritating the animal and allowing
it to bite on glass, is triturated in the usual way.

     (Dr. T. L. Bradford furnishes us with the following
     classification of this reptile):

The heloderma is classed as follows: Order: Saurii. Lacertilia. Lizards.
Sub order: 5. Fissilinguia. Family: Lacratidæ. Heloderma horridum of
Mexico; the crust lizard; the Mexican Caltetopen. Called heloderma from
its skin being studded with nail or tubercle-like heads. The Gila
monster is a native of Arizona, New Mexico and Texas. It is smaller than
the Mexican variety, and is called, by Cope, Heloderma Suspectum. It is
the only lizard whose character is not above reproach, hence the name.
Zoology says: An esquamate-tongued lizard with clavicles not dilated
proximally, a postorbital arch, no postfront-osquamosal arch, the pre
and post frontals in contact, separating the frontal from the orbit, and
furrowed teeth receiving the different ducts of highly developed
salivary glands.

     (There has been considerable difference of opinion as to
     whether the Heloderma is poisonous or not; but the
     following abstract from a paper on the subject read
     before the College of Physicians, Philadelphia, 1883, by
     S. Wier Mitchell, together with the provings made later,
     ought to very effectually settle all dispute on this
     point; the conclusions are the result of experiments on
     animals):

The poison of heloderma causes no local injury. It arrests the heart in
diastole, the organ afterwards contracts slowly--possibly in rapid rigor
mortis.

The cardiac muscle loses its irritability to stimuli at the time it
ceases to beat. The other muscles and nerves respond to irritants.

The spinal cord has its power annihilated abruptly, and refuses to
respond to the most powerful electrical currents.

This virulent heart poison contrasts strongly with serpent venom, since
they give rise to local hæmorrhages, causing death chiefly through
failure of respiration and not by the heart unless given in overwhelming
doses. They lower muscle and nerve reactions, especially those of the
respiratory apparatus, but do not cause extreme and abrupt loss of
spinal power. They also produce secondary pathological appearances
absent in heloderma poisoning.

The briefest examination of the lizard's anatomy makes it clear why it
has been with reason suspected to be poisonous, and why it poisons with
so much difficulty. Unless the teeth are entire, the poison abundant,
and the teeth buried in the bitten flesh so as to force it down into
contact with the ducts where they open at the crown of the teeth, it is
hard to see how even a drop of poison could be forced into the wounds.
Yet it is certain that small animals may die from the bite, and this may
be due to the extraordinary activity of the poison, and to the lizard's
habit of holding tenaciously to what it bites, so as to allow time for a
certain amount of absorption.

     (The provings and the clinical cases that follow were
     from the virus of the Gila monster obtained by Dr.
     Charles D. Belden, of Phoenix, Arizona, in 1890, who
     suggested it as a possible remedy for paralysis agitans
     and locomotor ataxia. He obtained the virus from a
     captive monster by irritating it and then letting it
     strike, or bite, a piece of heavy glass; by this means he
     obtained a few drops of a pasty yellowish fluid. In his
     letters Dr. Belden quotes Sir John Lubbock as follows):

This animal does not bite frequently, but when it does it is understood
that the result is a benumbing paralysis like to paralysis agitans or
to locomotor attaxia. There is no tetanic phase, being, as I apprehend,
a condition almost reverse in objective symptoms to hydrocyanic acid or
strychnia.

     (Dr. Belden also writes):

It seems to me that it (the poison) differs in so many points from all
present known venoms that it is worth our having. In the first place it
is alkaline, and all other poisons of reptiles are acid. Second, its
effect is not always sudden but is lasting--causing sickness for months
and death even after a year. Again, although it does not produce
paralysis it is not the tonic spasm, but rather the slow creeping death
from extremities. It does not seem to excite but to depress.

     (A supply of this poison was sent to Dr. Robert Boocock
     at his request for proving, and he made three different
     trials of it, the results of which were published in the
     _Homoeopathic Recorder_ for March and April, 1893; but
     as Dr. James E. Lilienthal has arranged the matter in
     schema form we will here only give fragmentary quotations
     from Dr. Boocock's papers, which are quite long, covering
     nearly thirty pages. The following is from Dr. Boocock's
     paper):

I am in my sixtieth year, sanguine, bilious temperament, fair complexion
and weigh 160 pounds; height, 5 feet 6 inches. My normal pulse rate is
72, full, round and regular. I am in very good health. I do not drink
alcoholic beverages of any kind, neither do I smoke nor drink strong
coffee, or tea, or cocoa. My usual and favorite beverage is hot water
with a little milk and sugar in it. If much sugar or salt is used my
stomach gets very sour, and water-brash is the result. I therefore use
very little of either, though I am very fond of sweetmeats.

When I received the first bottle of _Heloderma horridus_, I took a one
drachm vial and filled it with the 6x trit., and dissolved it in four
ounces of diluted alcohol, of which I took a few drops, dried my fingers
on my tongue, and a severe feeling of internal coldness, so intense as
to cause me to fear being frozen to death, ensued. I had some twitches
about my heart, as if the blood was hard to get in or out. I was
somewhat alarmed, but as I had no trembling I sat over the register and
tried to get warm. The day was a very cold one, but my office was
comfortably warm, and I had no consciousness of having taken cold.

I was not surprised at feeling this so soon after taking the few drops,
for I know that I am very sensitive to any medicine and have a bad habit
of tasting medicine, but never without being conscious of its effects,
sometimes very unpleasantly so.

Now, to-day is warm and damp, thunderstorm this morning, although it is
December 9th. The storm lasted three or more hours; lightning very
vivid. I had already taken one drop of the 30th, with a very severe
nervous headache, but I forgot that when I took the medicine. I have
medicated 2 oz. No. 35 globules with 30th dilution, and having taken six
globules as a dose before they were dry.

A feeling of heat in head and face, some headache over the right
eyebrow. Cold feeling in my legs; after two hours a numb feeling around
and down my left thigh; feeling very drowsy, so took a short nap in my
chair. Was awakened suddenly with a jerking in my head. Central part of
frontal bone so queer as to awaken me.

When my office bell rang it threw me into a startled and trembling
condition, something new to me. At 5:30 took four globules more.

8 P.M. The pressure at my heart and in my head and scalp is very great.
A feeling of great heat and some pressure. Not so much burning in my
face, but a feeling on my left cheek as if being pricked with points of
ice. A very severe and tired feeling, with coldness of legs and feet. A
slight dryness of my lips, with a tingling feeling and great dryness in
my throat. Gurgling in the region of the spleen.

9:30 P.M. The pressure and heat on the top of my head appears like an
inflammation of the meninges. It does not affect my mind; that remains
clear, and I can think and read as well and as long as ever. No more
medicine. * * *

December 29, 1892. No medicine. Some trembling, but not so great or so
extensive; it does not now extend along the whole limb. Parts of right
arm and left thigh hemiplegial; no acute feeling. But some muscles will
twitch and tremble for a few seconds. Just enough to arrest my attention
and amuse me, and feel like saying, "Hello, _Heloderma hor_! have you
not done with me yet?" For it is a great surprise to me how these
feelings will come on and creep over me. And I am inclined to ask
myself, can it be that all these strange and to me new feelings can be
the effects following the taking of these few doses? And yet, if it were
necessary, I could swear they were. I have my fears if I will ever be
free from these nervous trembling spells, and the feeling in my head and
heart.

     (The foregoing gives the gist of the first trials. The
     third and last now follows. It was made with repeated
     doses of the 30th potency.)

12 meridian. Sensation as if a cold, freezing wind were blowing upon me
from the bend of my knees. Head feeling as if the scalp were being drawn
tight over my skull, and my facial muscles were being drawn very tight
over the bones. A giddiness and a cold pressure from within the skull. A
cold, running chill from superior maxillary down to the chin. Trembling
of limbs. Coldness extending from the knee into the calf of the leg.
Pain and pressure within the skull from crown to occiput, and from back
forward over the left eye. A very drowsy feeling. I could sleep if I
gave way to the feeling. * * * *

January 4, 1893, 7:45 A.M. Took another dose of six globules. Pulse, 72.
Temperature, 97 3·5. A flush of heat in my face. A feeling as if I were
walking on sponge or as if my feet were swollen. Dull headache. The
arctic cold feeling is more in my right arm, elbow joint, and right
thigh and left foot. A great trembling of my arm. It is hard work to
steady my hand, which holds my book, enough to continue reading or
writing.

The feeling of swelling in my feet of walking on sponges sensation
continues; a springiness, with a sense of looseness in stepping out,
which requires some caution, as if I were not sure of my steps. The
trembling of my hands is on the increase; feeling of soreness in my
heart, more under left nipple; pain in my back, lumbar region. Some
little scalding of urine; flow not so free and full, intermitting
slightly, as if I had some calculus in the bladder which interfered with
continuous flow. Stool more free and full.

Earwax, which had been very dry, now flows from both ears, but is more
free on the left side. Left nostril sore; ulcerated. Throat sore and
tender to outside touch. * * *

9 P.M. Very weak feeling, with pain in my heart; same place, under left
nipple. Head aches and arctic rays in various parts of my body. * * *

January 5, 12 noon. Took twelve more globules. Numb feeling in my head.
A feeling as if I would fall on my right side. A good drive this morning
in the snowstorm; and felt a desire to bear to the right side and could
not walk straight because of this, and had repeatedly to stop or step to
the left to get a straight course on the causeway. A good deal of the
same feeling, but very weak and sleepy; was compelled to lie down, but
did not sleep, although feeling very drowsy; laid very quiet, as if I
was in a stupor; the old feeling in various parts of my body, only more
acute; a feeling in various parts as if a needle were being thrust into
my flesh.

4:45 P.M. Took thirteen globules. A very stiff neck the most prominent
feeling. All the previously recorded feelings, only more intensely. I
have a painful boring feeling in the middle third of left thigh. * * *

8:30. Flushed, hot feeling in my head and face, but no increase in
color; but then I have just come out of the storm.

9:30. Took twelve globules more and retired to rest; very tired; slept
very profoundly until 1 A.M., then could not sleep. My back, in the
lumbar muscles, ached so and my left leg that I could not sleep for
hours, and my brain felt as if scalded; an intense burning feeling in
the meninges, for this did not affect my power to think. This hot
feeling commenced and spread down my back. An intense pain over left
eyebrow, through my left eye to base of brain and down my back. The pain
in the back of my head caused me to bore my head deep into my pillow,
and reminded me of cases I have seen of cerebro-spinal meningitis. An
intense weakness, as if I had no power to move, and no wish to do so,
and yet I was afraid I could not attend to my business. Yet, strange to
say, I was not alarmed, but passively indifferent. I could not open my
eyes without great effort; it was hard work to keep them open and the
easiest thing for them to close, as if there were a great weight upon
them, keeping them down. I begged to be allowed to remain in bed until
some one wanted me professionally, and yet I could not thus give way to
my feelings, and so got up.

7 A.M. Feeling very weak and giddy. Staggering about my bedroom trying
to dress. It was all that I could do to lift a hod of coal to the stove.
The pains in my head and lumbar muscles, back of my head near atlas and
middle third of left thigh and right elbow are the most noticeable from
the great pains; and arctic coldness in my feet and hands and arms; have
had a transient feeling of pain in the little finger and little toe of
right side. Very feverish or parched in the night, and my breathing was
hard and sounded as if I was drawing my breath through iron pipes. I
feel that I must not take any more medicine at present. When I remember
what a long time I was in getting to the end of the previous proving, I
feel that I dare not go any further.

The dose I have been taking, a No. 35 globule, is as large as ten such
as is ordinarily used for the 30th or for high dilutions, so that I have
taken as good as sixty high dilution globules as a dose, and lately as
high as one hundred and twenty-four and sometimes oftener daily.

I was surprised at these hot flushes and burnings in my head and along
my spine. And these strongly reminded me of some feeling a proving of
_Gelsemium_ caused, only that has sweat, whilst this has no moisture,
everything being dried up. Saliva, tears, nostrils, and earwax; the
great weakness and pain in the body reminds me of cerebro-spinal
meningitis.

My pulse rate is 68. 8:15. Temperature, 97 only.

1 P.M. What fearful aching in my body! Arctic feeling throughout my
body, except my head and face, and oh! so tired. A feeling as if it were
almost impossible to keep my eyes open. While out on my professional
rounds a feeling came over me as if it would be far easier to lie down
in the snowy streets than to keep trying to get along. The trembling is
very persistent.

9 P.M. Oh! this bad feeling in my head, the aching, aching in my bones,
in every part of my body, head to feet; no part entirely free from pain,
my body so cold; a feeling as if I had holes in my garments, and cold,
frosty winds were blowing through and freezing my flesh; cold penis and
testicles, no feeling but coldness. A slight gluey discharge; a fluent
discharge from nose, with great sneezing. * * *

January 9th, 8 A.M. Pulse rate 68; is not so full or jerky, but it is
some. Temperature under the tip of the tongue, 96; deeper in, 97. This
morning awoke at 3 A.M. and got up to urinate, but I could not stand
without I had hold of something. Oh, such a weak, giddy feeling! I never
fainted but once, from loss of blood, and these sensations are similar.
Plenty of strength to hold me up, but unable to balance myself, and when
I put forth an effort I staggered about like a man trying to walk with
paralysis or locomotor ataxy. This idea was the most prominent in my
mind, but I have a patient recovering from paralysis who has to swing
his body as he walks, to get his feet forward, and is very weak and
shaky about his knees, and these sensations very strongly reminded me of
his efforts. His weakness is in his knees, but mine was from the base of
my skull--cerebrum--where the pains have been so persistent near the
atlas extending downward. When I arose, at 7 A.M., it was very hard work
for me to balance myself enough to complete dressing myself, and very
hard work to carry my head. If I bent forward, then it required great
effort to keep from falling on my face or backward. This lack of
balancing power was accompanied by a sensation of nausea, as if I were
going to vomit. I persisted in my efforts to work, in hopes of shaking
off these very alarming sensations, and by effort got through my morning
work. Whilst shaving a severe jerk of my right arm caused me to gash my
face; very strange, but I ought not to have tried to do this. I have now
some numbness in my right hand and arm, and a good deal of trembling.
Arctic feeling in my feet and in various parts of my body. This feeling
of want of balancing power does not entirely leave me; a full, pressing
feeling in all parts of my head. And when I walk I notice I lift my feet
higher than usual, or than is necessary, and I put my heel down hard, as
if I was not sure of holding on to the ground. I notice some twitching,
as if my feet would spring up, making me walk as if I had the cock's
gait, as it is described. * * *

7 A.M., January 10, 1893. Thank God I began this day with more comfort
and more control of myself; my limbs are easier to manage; a little
giddiness and staggering, and stiff, bruised sensation in my back and
lower limbs. My cervical vertebra is less sore and have little pain; and
altogether feel very much better. My pulse rate is 80 this A.M.; full
and round; no jerks perceptible. Temperature 98 under the tongue, by the
root. Mercury very slow in rising; had to keep the thermometer in a long
time. I have a flushed, hot feeling in my face and head; no trembling,
less staggering, and can manage my limbs fairly well. I feel as I dared
not trifle with myself any further, for I am very weak. A very little
exertion would make me feel very ill. I am feeling like a man who had
just come from under a deadly risk; am very weak and prostrated, with
every nerve on the jump. Oh, so very weak! A sinking feeling. A parched
thirstiness in my throat and mouth. My tongue is clean; bowels regular;
a good deal of flatus, very fetid; pale yellow, greenish urine
(specific gravity 1008), smelling very fetid; same smell as the flatus;
more like the smell of rotting sweet fruit or vegetables. * * *

January 14, 1893. Could not get out of bed at my usual time; very severe
pain in head and back of neck, going down my back and right leg;
twitches, with cold, stinging, ice-needle pricks. My right hand is
feeling as if it were frozen. Pulse rate 64; full, round, but appears to
have a pendulum motion or twitch. Temperature 96 3-5. Mind clear, but
very weak in my body, and I can not get warm over a hot register or with
hot fluids. This constant arctic cold is very hard to bear and makes me
this morning feel as if I had a cake of ice on my back. My hands are
blue with cold and my feet feel like lumps of ice. Headache and
giddiness; could not keep from trembling while some patients were in my
consulting room, and had a good deal of difficulty in steadying and
controlling my voice; when excited could not get hold of the right words
I wanted and dropped some when speaking, from a want of flexibility or a
catch in my tongue. Pains in various parts of my body; the same
locations and character. Quite a rush of business to-day and very
ill-fitted to attend to it. My hands and feet blue and aching with cold,
even while I was sitting over a hot register that scorched my boot
leather, yet no feeling of warmth in hands or feet. A good deal of
throbbing and aching in the upper part of my kidneys, the right one the
sorest. Sharp pains in my bowels, near the cæcum; some trembling (when
asleep it awoke me) in my right arm and left leg, with a sharp pain near
the ankle joint. * * *

January 20. Awoke this morning in a shivering fit. Trembling, giddiness
and headache, but not very severe. Cold arctic feeling. Pulse 68.
Temperature 97 1-5. My feet, 8 A.M., cold. Severe pain in left testicle,
extending through to the back to anus. Bleed very much from old piles.
An aching at end of penis, and no sexual desire. A feeling as if the
testicles were swollen and painful, as in orchitis; this is only a
transient pain, and comes and goes at infrequent periods, or remittent
in their character. I notice my urine is taking on the greenish-yellow
again, and my right arm is chilly from the arctic rays. My feet are
cold, and the coldness creeps up higher in my legs. A great deal of
arctic feeling in and around my heart. My breath is cold. Headache, but
mind clear. Cold chills run over me in various parts of my body. My
hands tremble very much at times, so that I can not write. Pain in
testicles and coldness, as if they were frozen. Pass a large quantity of
urine. * *

January 21. 8 A.M. Did not get up before, owing to the pressure in my
skull, as if it were too full; dropsy or some swelling of my brain;
giddiness, and a numbness down my left leg, and a jerking upward in both
of them. Some trembling and coldness around my heart, and in my lungs
and down my arms. My feet were very hot in the night until 5 A.M., when
they became cold, numb and jerky, upwards. My pulse rate is very slow
this morning, only 56 beats. Temperature is slowly forced up to 98. I
have a sensation as if my left cheek were swollen, but it is not so.
Trembling very much in my hands.

2:30 P.M. Have not been warm yet to-day; very intense arctic sensation
in my body and heart and lungs. Slight cough. Numbness in my right arm.
Much trembling, and a sensation of inward trembling in all parts of my
body. Generative organs frozen cold, and this coldness extends up my
back. My feet so cold that I have burned my boots, and yet cannot get
them warm. Coldness extends up to my knees. Stiffness and pain in left
thigh. Cold arctic band round my head, with fulness in skull. Pulse 60.
Temperature 97 4-5. Good appetite. Mentally clear, although very weak;
very tired and discouraged that these feelings last so long. They seem
to be all beginning over again; worse now than they were a week ago. I
feel more like giving up and going to bed sick, but I cannot afford to
do so, so I brace up and resist this temptation to try and find an
antidote for these recurring series of feelings. * * *

January 23. Slept well until 5 A.M.; then awoke with pains in head and
burning in my feet, with some trembling and stiff feeling in my lungs
and heart, as if they were tied or unable to move. As I lay awake I
could hear my heart pounding away, but, oh! so slow. Felt very weak and
wanted to stay in bed, but after some hard thinking I got up. 7 A.M.
Very weak; staggered about while dressing. Pains in the base of the
brain. Pulse 64 and irregular in its beats, some of them failing
altogether to declare themselves only by their absence to respond.
Temperature, after being held under my tongue ten minutes, 97 2-5. Very
cold in my back and over my shoulders; hands and feet are blue with
cold. Itching all over my body, and as if I was bitten with fleas or
bugs were crawling over me. Skin of my hands very rough and cracks are
in them. My ears have a feeling as if wax were running out of them.* * *


January 26, 10 P.M. It has required a mighty effort to keep up this day.
My pulse 56, slow and irregular; temperature 98. Headache, yet mind
clear; backache. Weakness in all my body; my limbs so weak in walking
that it was difficult to keep going, and felt as if I could lay down or
drop down anywhere. What heart failure symptoms are I do not know, but
fear I came very near it and yet I have resisted this feeling, and kept
awake and about. Have felt very ill all the day, and am so now on
retiring, 11 P.M. * * *

January 29. 9 A.M. Just after breakfast, pulse 68, temperature 99; slept
very heavy, but dreamed of treating many cases of black diphtheria.
Awoke, slept, dreamed the same dream again, and again the same dream,
three separate times. How very singular! During these provings, I have
done this three separate times. Three dreams in one night--the same
dream, the same disease, the same families in my dream. This singularity
caused me to lay awake wondering what this can mean. I have not any
patients suffering from this disease, and I do not know of any in the
town, and nothing that I know of to bring this disease to my mind. Awoke
feeling very stiff and sore. * * *

January 30. Head pains again, the same old character. Sensation of
swelling in my face and pain in nerves of teeth, molars. Hot feeling.
Pulse, 68. Temperature, 99. Very weak, but my mind clear. Much trembling
and the oppression round my heart and chest producing a suffocating
feeling that makes me afraid, and I must now seek some means to arrest
this difficulty and give me some relief. I know it looks cowardly to
give up, but my family compels me to do something to enable me to keep
about. I cannot do any more; this heart oppression makes me think of
heart failure. Pulse, 56, and temperature 96. Very weak. I hope it will
wear away and this trembling improve. They have been caused by this
drug, one of the most powerful. I gave up and went to bed very ill. I
had to keep it from my family, but I was afraid my heart would stop
beating and had a very restless night. I took acetic acid, as vinegar I
had in some pickles I thought changed or relieved the first class or
effort of provings and caused me to stop and begin again. I think it did
help me. Next day very prostrated but did not take any note of my pulse
or temperature, because I had began to try to find an antidote, and this
vinegar and lemon juice has relieved many of them. I fear sometimes that
the trembling in my hands may never fully leave me now.

February 12, 1893. Copying my notes has brought so vividly to my memory
that I can almost feel the old arctic rays through my body, and the
giddiness and staggering gait of the _Heloderma hor._ days. I hope that
you may have many others more courageous than I have been, whose
provings will compare or improve upon this poor effort of mine.

CLINICAL.

The case of paralysis that I spoke of, whose staggering gait was called
to my mind by my feelings, is now taking _Heloderma_.

In the following case, Mrs. Ford, eighty-one years of age, has been my
patient several times during the last four years. She suffered from
erysipelas and dropsy in the legs. In September I was again called in
for the same old trouble; the usual remedies were effectual. In October
she caught cold, and had also a bad fall; her symptoms were those of
pneumonia, fever, delirium and cough, pain in chest and hard work to
breathe, blueness of lips, tongue and cheeks, cold extremities and was
very low in appetite, and appeared to be sinking. Pulse, fifty;
temperature, ninety, and to all human appearance was rapidly dying; all
said so, and I fully believed so, but left _Heloderma horridus_, one
powder in water, and ordered her tongue to be moistened with a feather
dipped in this every half hour. I did not call the next day until
evening. I was waiting to be notified of her death, but no such notice
coming called to see, and, to my surprise, found everything changed. I
then gave _Helo. hor._ 200, every four hours, with placebos. All the bad
symptoms gradually disappeared, breathing became natural, heart gained
strength, pulse increased to seventy, temperature to ninety-eight and
appetite became better, asking frequently for food. This continued so
long as she was taking this medicine. She was so well that I ceased to
attend, she having no aches or pains, was eating and sleeping well,
bowels moved regularly and night watching was given up. All who saw the
recovery were pleasingly surprised, and so was I, and have frequently
asked myself could anything else have done this. _Lachesis_ has changed
a slate colored tongue, and has aroused those who appeared to be dying
for a short time, but to extend the life of one as good as dead for
thirty days is a triumph for the _Helo. hor._

     (To the foregoing we may add that some have thought that
     the proving was too sensational, but other evidence that
     has not appeared in print leads to the conclusion that it
     is essentially true, and that the proving was made by one
     peculiarly susceptible to the remedy. We know of one
     gentleman who laughed at it and in bravado took a number
     of doses during an afternoon. He felt no immediate
     effects, but during the night awoke with some very
     peculiar feelings that he could attribute to nothing but
     the _Heloderma_, and they were of such a character that
     he refused to take any more. It would be well to use the
     remedy with caution until the practitioner has gauged its
     powers.)

     (Dr. Charles E. Johnson wrote as follows to Dr. Boocock
     concerning the remedy):

"I have had under treatment a case that has been pronounced incurable by
many physicians. She has had most of the symptoms developed in your
proving, that awful coldness being most pronounced. She has had two
doses of the 200th. I learn through a neighbor that she is delighted
with the result of the last medicine. The coldness has nearly
disappeared, leaving a comfortable glow upon the body. She tells her
neighbors this without having been informed by me what results I
expected from the medicine."

     (Dr. Erastus E. Case contributed the following detailed
     clinical case to the _Medical Advance_, July, 1897):

An auburn haired woman, 55 years of age, had numbness in the feet two
years ago. It has gradually extended upward until it now includes the
lower part of the abdomen.

Tingling, creeping sensation on the legs as if from insects.

Worse when lying in bed at night.

Worse from exposure to cold air.

Worse from touch; she cannot endure to place her bare feet together.

Legs insensible to an electric battery.

Legs wasting away, skin very dry and inelastic.

Ankles turn easily when trying to walk.

Numbness of the arms from the hands to the elbows.

Forgetfulness.

Melancholy with weeping.

Worse in stormy weather.

Worse when thinking of her ailments, cheered by company.

Pain in the forehead in the morning, aggravated by turning the eyes.

Tongue dry and cracked in the morning.

Swallowing difficult.

Empty eructations, especially before breakfast.

Empty, gone sensation in the stomach.

Dislikes sweet things and worse from taking them.

Sensation of constriction about the whole abdomen.

Constipation from torpor of the rectum.

Hemorrhoids and itching of the anus.

Burning in the urethra during and after micturition.

Burning and dryness of the vagina.

Palpitation and dyspnoea from slight exertion.

Drawing sensation in all the extremities.

Yellow skin.

April 11, 1895. _Heloderma horridus_ four powders, one every four hours.

April 23, 1895. Decidedly more cheerful and memory is better.

Bowels more active.

Legs more reliable, with the numbness and tingling.

No medicine.

April 26, 1895. Alarmed because the palms and soles are swollen and
itching.

No medicine.

May 22, 1895. She gained rapidly in both flesh and strength, until a
week ago.

_Heloderma horridus_ one powder.

Soon after this an itching eruption came all over her, which subsided
without any further medication. She was restored to a fair degree of
health so that she has taken care of her house and family up to the
present time.

    (The following arrangement of Dr. Boocock's proving was
     made by Dr. Lilienthal):

_Mind._--No inclination for exertion in any way.

Difficulty in remembering the spelling of simple words.

Depressed, feels blue.

_Head._--Sensation of heat in head; heat on vertex.

Headache over right eyebrow.

Pressure in head and scalp; pressure in skull as if too full.

Soreness and stiffness in occiput, extending down neck; sore spot in
various parts of head.

Intense pain over left eyebrow, through eye to base of brain and down
back.

Aching at base of brain.

Sharp, digging pains.

Benumbed feeling all over head.

Burning feeling in brain.

Throbbing on top of head; head sore and bruised.

Sensation of band around head.

Cold band around head.

Sensation as if scalp was drawn tight over skull.

Bores head in pillow.

Vertigo and weakness when moving quickly.

Dizziness, with inclination to fall backward.

_Eyes._--Itching of eyelids, lachrymation.

Weight of eyelids, difficult to keep them open.

_Ears._--Pressure behind left ear; pressure in ear from within outward.

Copious flow of wax.

Ears dry and scurfy.

_Nose._--Left nostril sore; ulcerated.

Dry, itching scurfs in nostrils.

Severe attack of sneezing. Fluent discharge.

_Face._--Sensation of heat. Flushes of heat.

Cold, crawling feeling from temple down right cheek.

Sensation as if pricked with points of ice.

Sensation as if facial muscles were drawn tight over bones.

Stiffness of jaw.

_Mouth._--Dryness of lips.

Soreness.

Very thirsty.

Tongue tender and dry.

_Throat._--Dryness; parched sensation.

Tingling.

Soreness, tenderness to touch.

Stinging, sore feeling in right tonsil.

_Stomach._--Acid burning in stomach.

_Hypochondria._--Gurgling in region of spleen.

_Abdomen._--Sharp shooting pain in bowels, more on left side.

Pain across pubic bones, extending down into left testicle.

Stitching pains in bowels.

Throbbing in bowels.

Rumbling in bowels.

_Stool._--Loose, copious stool, lumpy, preceded by stitches in abdomen.

Stool loose, mushy with considerable flatus.

Stool soft, dark, difficult to expel.

Hæmorrhoids swollen, itch and bleed.

_Urinary Organs._--Bladder irritable, frequent urging to pass urine.

Tenderness in urethra, with sensation of discharge.

Urine not as free as usual, muddy.

Intermittent flow.

Urine, specific gravity, 1010; greenish-yellow, fetid (decaying fruit).

_Sexual Organs._--Erections.

Cold penis and testicle, with gluey discharge.

Pain and enlargement of left testicle.

_Female._--

_Respiratory Organs._--Slight, hacking cough, with pain in left scapulæ.

Fulness in chest, requiring an effort to inflate the lungs.

Oppressed for breath from least exertion.

_Chest._--Sharp stitch through right nipple to inside of right arm.

Cold feeling in right lung.

_Heart._--Pressure at heart.

Tingling around heart.

Trembling and coldness around heart.

Oppression around heart.

Sticking pains, shooting from left to right.

Stitches in heart.

Soreness in heart, more under left nipple.

Pulse, 56-72; full and jerky.

_Back._--Stiff neck; aching in bones of neck.

Painfulness of upper neck.

Coldness across scapulæ.

Chill in back from base of brain downwards.

Pain in back; pain in lumbar muscles awakening him.

Aching in right kidney; stitch pain in right kidney.

_Upper Extremities._--Numbness of right arm and hand with trembling.

Tingling in arms and hands.

Tingling in palm of left hand and along fingers.

Drawing in left hand, followed by tingling and prickling.

Pains in hands, if holding anything for some time.

Trembling of hands.

Hands blue, cracked and rough.

_Lower Extremities._--Numb feeling around and down left thigh.

Pain in left thigh and calf as if bruised.

Numb feeling down right leg.

Coldness extending from knee to calf.

Coldness of legs and feet.

Boring sharp pain on tibia of right leg.

Sensation of tight hand around left ankle.

Trembling of limbs. Jerking of limbs.

Tingling and burning of feet as if recovering from being frozen.

Burning in feet, preventing sleep, had to put them out of bed.

Sensation as if walking on sponge and as if swollen.

Staggering gait.

Tendency to turn to right when walking.

When walking lift feet higher than usual and put down heel hard.

_Skin._--Itching of skin as from insects.

_Sleep._--Drowsiness, but inability to sleep.

Restless sleep; awakens at 3 A.M.

Awakened from sleep by jerking in head; trembling of limbs; pain in
lumbar muscles.

_Fever._--Internal coldness.

Severe chill ran down back.

Cold rings around body.

Cold waves ascend from feet, or downward from base of brain.

_Nerves._--Startled easily. Trembling.

Tired feeling; very weak and nervous.

Intense aching in bones and all parts of body.

Trembling of left side; hands shaky.

Trembling can be controlled by effort of will.

_Generalities._--Stretching relieves pains in muscles and limbs.

Stitch pains going from left to right.

Weak, giddy, making it difficult to stand.

Unable to balance myself.

Movement does not increase the pain.

Throbbing all over body.

Bone pains.


JACARANDA GUALANDAI.

NAT. ORD., Bignoniaceæ.

COMMON NAME, Carroba.

PREPARATION.--The dried leaves are crushed and macerated in five parts
by weight of alcohol.

     (Of this South American remedy the _Dispensatory_ says it
     is used in Brazil and other South American countries for
     syphilis; sometimes under the name _Carroba_. Its value
     was also asserted in _British Medical Journal_, 1885. The
     following letter from Dr. J. F. Convers, of Bogota, to
     Messrs. Boericke & Tafel, throws some further light on
     its use; the letter is dated November 24, 1888):

_Dear Gentlemen_: Please to accept the leaves of a tree of the
Bignoniacea family, called _Jacaranda gualandai_, that I send you with
this, because it is very much used by our natives to cure illness of a
syphilitic character. I have used the mother tincture (5 drops _pro
dosi_), and the 3d dilution of it, in the treatment of blennorrhagia and
chancroids with the greatest success. In my experience I have found that
this medicine is a complementary and antidote to _Merc. v._

Mr. José M. Reyes, who proved the [Greek: theta] and the 2x dilution
during more than one month three times a day, found the following
results:

HEAD.--Vertigo on rising after stooping, with momentary loss of sight,
and sensation of heaviness in the forehead. Weakness of memory and
inability to study.

EYES.--_Pains and inflammation of the eyes, with redness more marked in
the left eye. Sensation of sand in both eyes._ Ophthalmia, which begins
in the left eye, with lachrymation and night agglutination of the
eyelids. Weakness of sight. Syphilitic-like ophthalmia.

STOOL.--Diarrhoea with dark mulberry-colored stools without pain or
tenesmus, but with mucus.

URINARY AND SEXUAL ORGANS.--Increased secretion of the urine. Pain in
the penis. _Blennorrhagia_ with a discharge which stains the linen a
dirty yellow color. _Chancroids._

THROAT.--Pain and burning of the larynx, when laughing or reading aloud,
and small vesicles in the pharynx.

BACK.--Weakness of the lumbar region.

These are not doubtful symptoms.

N. B.--This remedy acts on the head at first, afterwards on the
intestines, and on the eyes last.

Please try it, and make it known to our colleagues. Should it prove to
be there as good as here, I assure you it will be a valued remedy.

     (Dr. J. S. Whittinghill contributed the following,
     _Eclectic Medical Journal_, concerning _Jacaranda_):

Let me give the results of my experience with _Jacaranda_. I believe it
to be a true specific for certain kinds of rheumatism. Its first trial
was given a patient suffering as follows: She had had rheumatism for
about ten years--never became serious. Sometimes she was nearly relieved
from it; again lost much rest and sleep from it. Her wrist would become
painful and very weak from ordinary labor. She always suffered very much
in the morning upon any motion, and complained of being stiff. Had to
have assistance in dressing. Upon sudden motion, sensation in the
muscles as of tearing and being bruised--even painful upon pressure.

I gave her different remedies as they seemed to be indicated, with no
results towards removing the trouble. I thought there could be nothing
lost by trying _Jacaranda_. It met with decided success. She was
entirely relieved of muscular pains in a few days. Had the recurrence of
some symptoms in about six weeks after; tried _Jacaranda_ again with the
same decided success. Some eight weeks have elapsed since, with no
recurrence of muscular pains. I have tried it on three other patients
with the same peculiar morning stiffness and soreness of muscles. All
were relieved in a few days. They have no more muscular trouble. So I
put morning soreness and stiffness of muscles as the guide in
prescribing _Jacaranda_.


LAC CANINUM.

PREPARATION.--The fresh milk from a bitch is triturated in the usual
way.

     (The late Dr. Sam. Swan had a proving of this remedy, dog
     milk, in the Materia Medica he attempted to publish, but
     of which only one volume appeared. The work is now very
     rare. The following clinical cases were contributed by
     Dr. Philip Rice to the _Medical Century_, Vol. IX, No.
     24):

_Lac caninum_ is a remedy of undoubted value, though not very thoroughly
understood and consequently not very extensively used in this dread
disease. And since a proving has never been made, and since we have to
depend entirely upon clinical reports I feel it my duty to report a few
cases in which a clear demonstration of the value of this remedy was
made.

CASE I.--Bruce McG., æt. 15, dark hair, gray eyes, spare habit, rigid
fibre, nervous, quick, active, called at my office in the evening
complaining of sore throat, worse on right side, and on swallowing.
Headache dull and heavy, slight fever. Inspection revealed tonsils and
fauces congested and angry looking. On right tonsil a patch of membrane
the size of a split pea was seen.

_Lycopodium_ 30x was given. The next morning the entire trouble seemed
to have gone to the left side; with it had come, also, stiff neck and
tongue; profuse flow of saliva; temperature 101 F. Membrane somewhat
larger. _Mercurius ruber_ 30x was given. In the evening the trouble was
worse again on right side, the membrane now entirely covering both
tonsils, temperature 102 F. Limbs ached, back ached, and patient was
restless. Remembering the symptom, "membrane alternates between right
and left sides," and this having been so characteristic, I gave _Lac
caninum_ in the 30th potency. Improvement began immediately and at the
end of the third day the membrane was entirely gone and case discharged
as far as medicine was concerned.

CASE II.--Louisa McG., æt. 13, in temperament exactly like her brother,
the preceding case. Was irritable and listless for two days, but owing
to the fact that the fair began in a few days, to which she was
determined to go, she did not complain. The third day, however, her
mother noticed that she was truly sick and, there being a number of
cases of diphtheria in town, looked into her throat. She found both
tonsils covered with a membrane. I was called and as no other symptoms
could be elicited I gave _Sulphur_ 30x and told them I would call again
in the evening, which I did and found symptoms rapidly developing.
Aching in all the limbs; headache; pain in the throat on swallowing;
worse on the right side; neck and tongue stiff; membrane just the same.
Temperature 101.5; same remedy continued.

Next morning the membrane was the same, pain now in left side, throat
internally and externally oedematous, fauces and uvula glossy or
varnished in appearance. Temperature 102, urine scanty, no thirst.
_Apis_ 30x was now given. In the evening pain back in right side again.
Temperature 102.5. Membrane spreading; stiffness of neck and tongue more
marked and saliva profuse. Not having seen the case till the membrane
had quite generally formed, but the patient being in temperament like
her brother and the pain shifting from side to side, as in his case, I
decided to give her _Lac caninum_. Improvement began immediately and at
the end of four days the membrane was entirely gone.

CASE III.--The servant girl in the family where cases one and two had
been, Anna B., æt. 17. In temperament the very opposite to the other
cases, being fat, fair and flabby. Complained of pain in right side of
throat on swallowing, neck stiff, tonsil slightly congested. Felt as if
she had a bad cold. Advised her to come to the office and get some
medicine. She had, however, some "dope" on hand and said she guessed
she would take that first. Next evening I was called and found her with
throat much worse. Membrane covering left tonsil entirely, also a narrow
strip of membrane on posterior wall of pharynx, pain in left tonsil on
swallowing, neck and tongue stiff, saliva quite profuse. Temperature
only slightly above normal. _Lac caninum_ 30x was given. Patient never
went to bed and at the end of the second day no trace of membrane could
be seen.

Now, the symptoms common to all three cases and the only ones
characteristic in each case were, first, both pain and membrane shifting
from side to side; second, stiffness of neck and tongue; third, profuse
saliva; fourth, aching in limbs marked; fifth, entire absence of
prostration; sixth, character of pain was "as if throat was burned raw."
Now, the question will arise in the bacteria man's mind, was this real
diphtheria; were the German's bacteria present? I will answer candidly,
I don't know; I never looked for them.


LAPIS ALBUS.

SYNONYM. Silico-Fluoride of Calcium.

PREPARATION.--The residue obtained by evaporation, from the waters of
the mineral springs of Gastein, Germany, is triturated in the usual way.

     (It was Von Grauvogl who first called attention to this
     drug, the product of certain mineral springs in Germany,
     that have reputation for curing ulcers, cancers, tumors,
     etc. In the Transactions of the American Institute of
     Homoeopathy, 1896, will be found the following by Dr.
     W. A. Dewey):

My experience with this remedy, and I have been somewhat interested in
it, dates from about 1876. At that time a member of my own family had an
enlargement of one of the cervical glands. It was nearly as large as a
hen's egg, and had a soft, doughy feel. Under _Lapis albus_ 6,
prescribed, I believe, by Dr. G. E. E. Sparhawk, now of Burlington,
Vt., the swelling speedily and completely disappeared. A peculiar and
unusual symptom noticed by this patient while taking the medicine was a
marked increase in the appetite; it became ravenous.

Since that time I have used the remedy in many cases of scrofulous
enlargement of the cervical glands, and find that it is almost specific
where the glands have a certain amount of elasticity and pliability
about them, rather than a stony hardness, such as might call for
_Calcarea fluorica_, _Cistus_ or _Carbo animalis_.

One case in particular which I recall was a young lady, about twenty
years of age, a natural blonde, skin fair, bluish white, showing
prominent veins, who had a glandular enlargement in the right
supra-clavicular region, nearly the size of a goose egg, and one
somewhat smaller a little farther back in the interval between the
sterno-cleido mastoid and trapezius muscles. These had a certain amount
of hardness, but they were movable. Others of the cervical chain were
also enlarged, the right side being the only one affected. As the young
lady was engaged to be married, these unsightly lumps were very
distressing. _Lapis albus_ 6, a powder four times a day, in a week
caused a marked diminution of the size of the glands, and in three weeks
they were not noticeable, and eventually entirely disappeared. This
patient also had a ravenous appetite while taking the remedy, an unusual
thing for her. Her anæmic color and complexion were also greatly
improved.

The most remarkable effect of the use of the remedy I have had was in
the case of goitre in a lady of about thirty-five, blonde, who had for
over a year noticed a gradual increase in the size of the thyroid gland,
until it was as large as a good-sized fist, when she came to me. Both
halves of the gland seemed to be equally involved. It did not appear to
be of the encapsulated variety. This patient had received previous
homoeopathic treatment, having had _Spongia_, _Iodine_, _Thuja_, as
well as some other remedies. _Lapis albus_ 6 was prescribed, a dose
every three hours. The swelling began to disappear at once, and
continued to diminish in size until it completely disappeared, and at
the present time over five years have passed with no return of the
trouble.


LATRODECTUS MACTANS.

PREPARATION.--The spiders are triturated in the usual way.

     (The following paper by Dr. Samuel A. Jones appeared in
     the _Homoeopathic Recorder_, July, 1889, under the
     title, "Latrodectus Mactans: a Suggested Remedy in Angina
     Pectoris"):

     "The great result of the grim doctor's labor, so far as
     known to the public, was a certain preparation or extract
     of cobwebs, which, out of a great abundance of material,
     he was able to produce in any desirable quantity, and by
     the administration of which he professed to cure diseases
     of the inflammatory class, and to work very wonderful
     effects upon the human system."--_Dr. Grimshawe's
     Secret._

I do not know that the doctor who is the direct occasion of this paper
was _grim_, nor do I imagine he ever dreamed of such an application of
his paper as I purpose to make. I never met him; though he wore the gray
and I the blue during a struggle wherein fate might easily have thrown
us together. It was not until the autumn of '76 that I became aware of
his existence, and then by a contribution of his to a medical
magazine--the special copy of which was found amongst the multifarious
waifs of a bookstall. I could not "decline the article," although I was
then entering upon a field of labor that would leave little time for
such quiet research as the old doctor's paper so powerfully suggested,
so I bought the odd number, and fourteen years later I am making such
use of it as my sense of its significance enforces.

It is due Mr. A. J. Tafel to state that but for his most efficient
services this paper of mine would never have been written. To his
endeavors, stretching through some years, I owe the identification of
the remedy, without which I should not have put pen to paper; and having
secured this, from unimpeachable authority, too, he never rested from
his labors until he had put in my possession dilutions of the poison
itself. If, then, this _magis venenum_ shall prove itself _magis
remedium_, most assuredly the _pars magna_ of its introduction is his.

From the days of Dioscorides and Pliny to the present a venomous quality
has been ascribed to "the fluid emitted from the orifice in the fangs of
the arancidæ." That this quality was even lethal has been both believed
and questioned. _Insect Life_, Vol. I., No. 7, pp. 204-211, Washington,
1889, contains "A Contribution to the Literature of Fatal Spider Bites,"
in which the credulity of mere medical observers and the emphatic
incredulity of professed "entomologists and arachnologists" are dwelt
upon, and concerning which its author cautiously concludes as follows:

"It will possibly appear to the reader that after collecting this
testimony we are as far from the solution of the question--'Do spider
bites ever produce fatal results?'--as we were before; but it seems to
us, after analyzing the evidence, that it must at least be admitted that
certain spiders of the genus Latrodectus have the power to inflict
poisonous bites which may (probably exceptionally and depending upon
exceptional conditions) bring about the death of a human being.
Admitting in its fullest force the argument that in reported cases the
spider has seldom if ever been seen by a reliable observer to inflict
the wound, we consider that the fact that species of the Latrodectus,
occurring in such widely distant localities as South Europe, the
Southern United States, and New Zealand, are uniformly set aside by the
natives as poisonous species, when there is nothing especially dangerous
in their appearance, is the strongest argument for believing that these
statements have some verification in fact. It is no wonder that a
popular fear should follow the ferocious-looking spiders of the family
Theraphosoidæ; but considering the comparatively small size and modest
coloring of the species of Latrodectus so wide-spread a prejudice,
occurring in so many distinct localities, must be well founded." P. 211.

Is it indeed an _argument_ that "in reported cases the spider has seldom
if ever been seen by a reliable observer to inflict the wound?" How an
Orfila, a Christison, and a Caspar would smile when asked if the
evidence of a poisonous quality depended upon the administration of the
poison being "seen by a reliable observer." Toxicology detects a poison
by the physiological test as well as the chemical. Strychnia in quantity
too small for the coarse chemical test is revealed by the tetanized
muscles of a frog whether that "arch martyr to science" be in "South
Europe, the Southern United States, or New Zealand," and that
infinitesimal fractions of Strychnia will display its characteristics
whether or not its administration is "seen" by a Christison, or a
college janitor. Of course, a Christison would recognize Strychnia from
and in the phenomena, while a college janitor (and here and there an
over-scientific entomologist) might not.

It is neither the aim nor the purpose of this paper to establish the
lethal property of spider poison; though I must acknowledge that, until
I read the paper in _Insect Life_, I had no thought that its possession
of such a property would be called in question. I shall content myself
with calling attention to the pathogenetic quality of the poison of
_Latrodectus mactans_, leaving my reader to discern the resemblance of
its _tout ensemble_ to an attack of angina pectoris, and therefore to
infer its homoeopathic applicability in that dread disorder. I shall
not enter upon the pathology--various and much confused--of that cardiac
seizure, because, as I get older, I find the "like" more and more of a
"pillar of cloud by day and pillar of fire by night," whilst in my short
life I have found "pathology" as changeable as a dying dolphin--and
every one knows that a dead fish "stinks and shines, and shines and
stinks."


CASES OF SPIDER BITE.

BY G. WILLIAM SEMPLE, M. D., HAMPTON, VA.[J]

    [J] _Virginia Medical Monthly_, Vol. II., No. 9, pp. 633-38,
    1875. "He was commissioned surgeon in the Confederate army,
    July 1, 1861; served until August 1st in the field on the
    peninsula; then placed in charge of hospital in Williamsburg;
    afterwards ordered to Richmond and placed in charge of an
    hospital, and remained until close of war." Failing to find
    any further trace of him I am led to believe that he has been
    mustered out of service by the Grand Commander.

"Spider bites are of rare occurrence in this vicinity, but are generally
productive of grave symptoms. [Isn't it bad taste for doctors to use the
words grave symptoms?] I will report all that have occurred to me in a
practice of forty years:

"CASE I. September 4, 1853. I was called to see Mr. D., at Old Point,
who had been bitten by a small, black spider on the prepuce, whilst on
the privy seat, at 12:30 o'clock. The bite at first caused only itching
of the prepuce, with a little redness of the part, but in less than half
an hour _nausea_, followed by _severe abdominal pains_, ensued. A
messenger was dispatched in haste for me to Hampton, three miles off.
Before I reached the patient, at 2:30 o'clock, _violent præcordial pains
extending to the axilla, and down the_ [left] _arm and forearm to the
fingers_, with _numbness of the extremity_, had succeeded, attended by
_apnæa_.

"In consequence of the violence of the symptoms, Dr. Stineca, surgeon of
the post, had been sent for, who had given two doses of _Laudanum_ of
[Latin: ezh]j each, and two of rectified whiskey of [Latin: ezh]ij each,
and, being in ill health and unable to remain, had ordered his steward
to apply four dry cups over the præcordia. This had just been done when
I arrived. I saw the _blood, thin and florid_, fill the cups like water
oozing through the muslin. When the cups were removed, the _blood_,
emptied into a basin, _did not coagulate_; and blood continued to ooze
slightly from the surfaces to which the cups had been applied until the
next morning, though a solution of _Tannin_ was applied.

"I found the patient _suffering extremely from the most violent
præcordial pains and from apnæa_, and also _violent pain in the left_
arm, which was almost _paralyzed_. His _pulse_ was 130 _and very
feeble_, his _skin cold_ as marble, and his _countenance expressive of
the deep anxiety_ he felt and expressed in words. The laudanum and
whiskey seemed to have produced no effect--the nausea and abdominal
pains having subsided before they were administered. There was no pain,
inflammation, or swelling where the bite was received. Even the itching
of the part had subsided. I gave the patient every half hour for several
hours [Latin: ezh]j of aromatic spirits of ammonia, and as much whiskey
and water as he could be induced to take, and afterwards gave them every
hour; also pediluvia of hot mustard and water, frequently repeated,
until the next night.

"September 5th, 8 A.M.--The symptoms continued unabated; indeed, the
patient grew worse until 2:30 o'clock, twenty-six hours after he was
bitten, for his _pulse_ had then become _so frequent that it could not
be counted, and so feeble that it could scarcely be felt_. He then
_vomited black vomit_ copiously--a quart or more. Soon afterwards
reaction set in, his pulse gradually gained force, and became less
frequent, the pain subsided and the respiration improved. At 8 P.M., the
pulse had gained considerable force, and the patient slept until some
minutes after 12; his pulse was pretty full at 1:10; his surface warm
and perspirable, and he felt almost free of pain. After a short interval
he again fell asleep, and slept quietly until morning, when he
awoke--his respiration healthy, pulse 80, regular and with sufficient
force, and entirely relieved of pain. He soon afterwards had _two pretty
copious evacuations from the bowels_, similar to the black vomit he had
vomited. After this he said he felt quite well, and took a light
breakfast and dinner, and returned that evening to his residence in
Portsmouth, and in a few days went to work at his trade.

"In thirty-six hours from the time he was bitten, he took three and a
half quart bottles of the best rectified whiskey--about three quarts
without showing the least symptom of intoxication."

I have cited this case at full length in order to present the _evolution
of the symptoms_, on which alone depends the resemblance of the action
of the poison to the chief symptoms of an attack of angina pectoris--a
closer resemblance than half a lifetime of somewhat wide reading has
enabled me to find in the effect of any other noxious agent. In fact,
after much searching, I find this case to be unique. In other cases of
spider bite I can find evidence that assures me of its genuineness, but,
to my knowledge, its _order of symptom evolution_ is as solitary as it
is singular and significant. This feature of _uniqueness_ will cause
many to regard it with suspicion. I think they will do wrong; for some
experience in proving work has taught me that one positive result from a
drug out-weighs any number of negative.

In the case of _Latrodectus mactans_ we shall find, from other
poisonings, that, as a rule, it displays an affinity for the præcordial
region as the _locus_ of its chief attack; and having assurance of that
fact, we shall not find it difficult to accept a clue from even a
solitary instance.

Of the remaining cases in Dr. Semple's paper I shall cite only the
symptoms, and be it observed that in all the cases as here given the
italics are my own.

CASE 2. A man "was bitten in the groin, and complained of only a slight
prickling and itching at the spot where he was bitten, but was
complaining [when Dr. S. saw him] of _severe abdominal pain_, with
_nausea_, and a _sinking sensation at the epigastrium_; and his _pulse_,
in a few minutes after the bite, had already become _quick and thready_;
and the _skin very cold_." The man soon recovered under ammonia and
whiskey--two quarts of the latter produced no symptoms of intoxication.

CASE III. A lad of eighteen years of age. "There was no pain, but only
itching and redness at the part bitten at first; but _violent pain soon
commenced there_ [on the back of the left hand] _and extended in a short
time up the forearm and arm to the shoulder and thence to the præcordial
region_."

CASE IV. "A tawny woman [daughter of a quadroon mulatto woman] about
twenty-two years old, the mother of two children." "Found her
_apparently moribund_; her _skin_ as _cold_ as marble; _violent pain
extending from the bite on the right wrist up the forearm and arm to the
shoulder, and thence up the neck to the back of the head on the right
side_; more _violent pain in the præcordia_, _extending thence to the
shoulder and axilla on the left, and down the arm and forearm to the
ends of the fingers_, and _this extremity partially paralysed_; added to
this, _apnæa was extreme; the respiration only occasional--gasping_; the
_pulse could not be felt in the left radial_, and I was not sure that I
felt it in the right."

In about fifteen minutes after the intra-venous injection of 13 minims
of undiluted _Aqua Ammoniæ_, the doctor "was astonished at the calm and
painless expression of her _countenance_, so lately _expressive of
anxiety and pain_."

CASE V. A healthy young girl of 13. She felt a stinging sensation on the
[right] wrist, accompanied by itching and redness at the spot [bitten].
For several minutes there was but little pain, but in half an hour a
_painful sensation_ began to be felt at the spot, which quickly
_extended up the arm to the shoulder_, and, in the course of an hour,
_along the neck to the back of the head_. * * * _Pain in the præcordial
region, with apnæa_ coming on, I was sent for. When I arrived she was
screaming fearfully with _pain_, and frequently exclaiming she would
_lose her breath and die_. The _pulse_ had become _thready_ and the
_surface cold_.

From these _data_ the poison of _Latrodectus mactans_ is suggested for
trial in _angina pectoris_, in that its physiological action presents
the closest _similimum_ yet found.

II.

It may be well to offer a critical examination of the foregoing cases.
If they are genuine effects of the poison of _Latrodectus mactans_,
they must afford a _recurrence of corresponding symptoms_. They may
differ in _degree_, because the quality of the venom may vary; first,
from the season in which the bite occurred (and judging from cases I, IV
and V, the poison of _Latrodectus mactans_ is most virulent in the month
of September), and, secondly, from the more thorough elaboration of the
venom. It is known that the poison of _Crotalus horridus_ differs in
intensity according to the frequency with which the snake has bitten in
a given period of time; of four successive "strikes" in four different
organisms, and at brief intervals, the intensity of the action will
vary, so that while the first wound is lethal the last is not--on which
fact depends the vaunted reputation of many an antidote to the bite of
the rattlesnake. That this may be also true of the spider poison is the
only explanation I can offer for the fact that many naturalists have
allowed themselves to be bitten by spiders of reputed poisonous species,
and with impunity.

RECURRENCE OF CORRESPONDING SYMPTOMS.

              (_Arabic numerals refer to the Cases._)

  +-----------------------------------------+---------+----------+
  |    I. Nausea                          1 | 2       |          |
  |   II. Abdominal pain                  1 | 2       |          |
  |  III. Countenance anxious             1 |         | 4        |
  |   IV. Pain up arm to shoulder,          |         |          |
  |        thence to back of neck           |         | 4      5 |
  |    V. Præcordial pain extending to      |         |          |
  |         left axilla, and down arm to    |         |          |
  |         finger ends                   1 |         | 4        |
  |    VI. Left arm almost paralyzed      1 |         | 4        |
  |   VII. Pain up arm to shoulder,         |         |          |
  |         thence to præcordia             |       3 | 4      5 |
  |  VIII. Apnæa                          1 |         | 4      5 |
  |    IX. Præcordial pain                1 |       3 | 4      5 |
  |     X. Pulse feeble, thready          1 | 2       | 4      5 |
  |    XI. Skin cold                      1 | 2       | 4      5 |
  |   XII. Sense of impending dissolution 1 |         | 4      5 |
  +-----------------------------------------+---------+----------+

While Dr. Semple's reports do not precisely state it, I think we may
safely infer a _sense of impending dissolution_ in cases I, IV and V.
The girl exclaimed she "would lose her breath and die;" the man in case
I "expressed in words" "the deep anxiety he felt;" the woman in case IV
was found "apparently moribund" with "gasping respiration," and
therefore incapable of speech, but who can doubt that she had _a sense
of impending dissolution?_

ISOLATED SYMPTOMS.

  _Numbness of the arm, 1._
  _Black vomit, 1._
  _Alvine evacuations similar to the black vomit, 1._
  _Sinking sensation at epigastrium, 2._
  _Respiration only occasional--gasping, 4._

It must be admitted that many of our accepted provings cannot as well
bear a similar test.

III.

There is another feature that the believer in the law of similars should
find no insuperable difficulty in accepting as a criterion of the
validity of a proving, namely: _the similarity of the drug symptoms to
certain disease symptoms_. I am not ready to believe that drug symptoms
are only the result of a "fortuitous concourse of atoms," nor can I for
one moment imagine that they are the product of blind and aimless
chance. I plainly discern in them the result of law, and I am wholly
unable to conceive of existing law without the absolutely necessary
_pre_-existing law maker. The consequent must have its antecedent.
Therefore, in a drug symptom I see a purpose, and by the light of the
law of similars I find the purpose of a drug symptom in an analogous
disease symptom--they answer to each other as face unto face in the
refiner's silver--and behind and beyond them both is another purpose, of
wisdom inscrutable, of love unfathomable. In a word, my reader, the
problem of the visible universe forces upon me the alternative that
weighed upon Marcus Aurelius--"either gods, or atoms." With atoms only I
cannot account for law; with God and in God both atoms and law find a
meaning and a purpose.

If I were submitting these convictions, or, if you will, this "working
hypothesis," to a Sir Thomas Browne, or a William Harvey, or a Thomas
Sydenham I should feel no momentary hesitation; as it is, I can only
hope that the spirit that filled these worthies is not extinct in days
when the "spiritual colic" that disordered an imaginary _Robert Elsmere_
is thought to disturb the eternal Verities. I much doubt if they who
mistake an eclipse for an annihilation will get any good from this poor
pen of mine.

The resemblance between the symptoms of angina pectoris and the effects
of the poison of _Latrodectus mactans_ are so striking as to justify the
presentation of a comparison; and it is hoped that physicians of wide
reading will pardon what may seem to them a piece of supererogation for
the sake of many a humbler practitioner whose opportunities have not
been so happy. At the same time, the widest reader must admit that he
has not found any one authority who has given a complete picture of
angina pectoris. Nor is it essential that such an all-including
"composite" shall now be presented; on the contrary, we shall offer only
salient points substantiated by observers of the highest order.

It will be well to start from an authority whose scholarship has never
been excelled--_Copland_. Of all our medical writers he may be called
the _Great Definer_--his readers will know what that means.

"_Acute constricting pain at the lower part of the sternum, inclining to
the left side, and extending to the arm, accompanied with great anxiety,
difficulty of breathing, tendency to syncope, and feeling of approaching
dissolution._"

Copland presents a group of constants, and, for a terse definition, has
well covered the principal phenomena. As variants he has omitted the
pulse and the surface temperature. He errs on the side of dogmatism in
defining the character of the pain as "constricting;" "aching, burning,
or indescribable," and "generally attended with a sense of
constriction" is more in accordance with the actual condition. Of
Copland's seven constants, Case 4 presents an analogue for each in
symptoms IX., V., III., VIII., XII., and the "tendency to syncope,"
which is not included in our table because Dr. Semple did not put the
fact in express words. If to this group we add the _thready pulse_ and
_cold skin_, we shall have "covered" nine of the most prominent symptoms
of angina pectoris; a pathological "composite" with a most striking
pathogenetic _similimum_.

But all the elements of Copland's group are not of equal importance; two
of them, at least, are pathognomonic. "The two constituent elements of
the paroxysm," says Latham, are "the sense of dissolution and the pain."
"Pain with one awful accompaniment may be everything." "This mixture of
the sharpest pain with a feeling of instant death." According to
Fothergill "the two prominent subjective phenomena are pain in the chest
and a sense of impending death." Eulenburg and Guttmann include another
element: "We regard the substernal pain, the feeling of anxiety, and the
disturbance of the heart's action, as the essential symptoms of angina
pectoris." Romberg notes the companionship of these two elements: "The
patient attacked with angina pectoris is suddenly seized with a pain
under the sternum in the neighborhood of the heart, accompanied by a
sense of anxiety so intense as to induce a belief in the approach of
death."

We have laid the emphasis of these various citations on the "essential
symptoms" in order to assert, with equal emphasis, that their analogues
occur in not only one case of _Latrodectus mactans_ poisoning. The
præcordial pain is noted in Cases 1, 3, 4 and 5, and the sense of
impending dissolution in Cases 1, 4 and 5. And that disturbance of the
heart's action which Eulenburg and Guttmann consider an essential
element is found in Cases 1, 2, 4 and 5; so that the _tout ensemble_
presented by Case 4 is corroborated.

Another important element, though it is one subject to variations, is
the direction of the extension of the pain. It most generally extends to
the left axilla, and down the arm to the fingers; as variations it
sometimes affects the right axilla and the back of the head. In Cases 1
and 4 the spider poison followed the direction of the disease, and in
Cases 4 and 5 it also affected the back of the head. In Case 1 it
produced the numbness of the arm and hand that is sometimes observed in
the diseases.

Copland includes "difficulty of breathing" amongst the elements of
angina pectoris. Trousseau does not regard this difficulty as real.
"Although patients think they are going to be suffocated during a
paroxysm, the chest is normally resonant on percussion, and if it be
auscultated as they draw in breath again vesicular breathing is heard
everywhere." Watson says, "the patient is not necessarily out of breath.
It is not dyspnoea that oppresses him; for he can, and generally does,
breathe freely and easily." Stokes is decided: "Respiration is
_secondarily_ affected; there may be slight dyspnoea or orthopnoea,
with lividity of the face, yet by an effort of the will (if the patient
dares to encounter the pang this commonly produces) the chest may be
pretty freely expanded, and the breathing relieved for a brief space;
dyspnoea is not a primary symptom of angina." Eulenburg and Guttmann
say, "Our own experience leads us to adopt Parry's conclusion, that the
changes in the respiration are principally, perhaps even solely, due to
the pain." Bristowe speaks of the sufferer as "fearing to breathe." We
can readily see that the "apnæa" observed by Dr. Semple in Cases 1 and 5
had physical origin, but in Case 4 he says "apnæa was extreme; the
respiration only occasional--gasping." This shows to what an extreme
extent the action of the spider poison had gone--even to implicating the
diaphragm; and it is noteworthy that Anstie records a case of angina
pectoris (_Neuralgia and its Counterfeits_, p. 67, London, 1871), in
which "there was so marked a catching of the breath as to make it almost
certain that there was a diaphragmatic spasm."

Of the changes in respiration accompanying angina pectoris we have,
then, both the general, and the rarest, form, produced pathogenetically
by the poison of _Latrodectus mactans_.

IV.

In its physiological action the poison of _Latrodectus mactans_
resembles angina pectoris vasomotoria--a purely functional derangement.
The similitude of the physiological action to pure angina pectoris
corroborates the accepted pathology of the latter condition, because the
phenomena of _Latrodectus_ poisoning were educed from previously healthy
organisms, and in pure angina pectoris there is no pre-existent organic
change occasioning the attack. According to the accepted pathology, we
have in angina pectoris vasomotoria, sudden spasms of the arterioles;
from this an increase of the arterial tension; to overcome this is more
forcible and rapid action of the heart; as the arteriole spasm persists
and doubtless deepens in intensity, distension of the left ventricle
follows, and from overdistension the agonizing breast-pang, and even
death from stoppage of the heart's diastole. But we must include another
element--spasm of the coronary vessels. "When there is a sudden rise in
the blood-pressure in the arteries, due to vasomotor spasm of the
peripheral systemic arterioles, and the heart-walls are strong and well
nourished, palpitation is evoked; when the coronary branches are
involved in the vasomotor spasm then angina is produced, and the
heart-walls, acutely distended with blood, can scarcely contract in the
face of the opposition presented to their contraction by the high
arterial tension. When this sudden systemic arteriole spasm extends to
the coronary vessels in a heart whose walls are diseased, a fatal attack
of angina with the heart full of blood may be induced. The danger
increases with the extent of the structural degeneration of the
heart-walls. Sudden rises of blood-pressure in the arteries will tax
hearts in their textural integrity, and lead to painful distension; such
sudden demands on decayed hearts lead to agonizing angina pectoris, and
the sense of impending dissolution is frequently followed by sudden
death."

Spasm of the arterioles and coronary vessels, rise of blood-pressure in
the arteries, embarrassed action of the heart, and painful distension
are just so many consecutive links in the phenomena produced by the
poison of _Latrodectus mactans_, as Cases I and IV amply testify.

The spider poisons are akin to the serpent poisons in their property of
producing a disorganization of the blood. In Case I, thin and florid
non-coagulable blood continued to ooze from the cut surface despite the
application of tannin. It may be a question whether this condition of
the blood is directly toxicological, or a pathological result of stasis
in the peripheral vessels. I incline to regard it as due to the latter
condition, and I believe this explanation also holds good in the case of
serpent poisoning.

The hæmorrhage recorded in Case I was of gastric origin; splenic
congestion existed, and the vasa brevia--branches of the splenic
artery--gave way under the pressure. I once met a similar hæmorrhage in
a case of intermittent fever in a child, and I recorded the fact as a
possible hint for the applicability of _Latrodectus mactans_ in a
similar condition.

In all the year that the stray copy of the old magazine was in my
possession I felt it a duty to write up this remedy. I have done it
lamely, but as well as I was able. Reader, where my duty ends yours
begins. May you discharge it more worthily than I.

     (There have been a number of cases reported in which
     _Latrodectus mac._ acted as Dr. Jones predicted; from
     them we select the following by Dr. E. H. Linnell, _North
     American Journal of Homoeopathy_, December, 1890):

S. L. G., a man fifty years old, of bilious temperament, a dentist by
profession, had slight attacks of angina after severe exposure and
overexertion during "the blizzard" in March, 1888. He did not consider
them of sufficient importance to consult a physician about them, but
some months later he had a suppurative prostatitis, which was followed
by considerable prostration, and the attacks of angina became very
severe. I never could get a satisfactory description of the character of
the pain, and I never saw him during a paroxysm. The pain was brought on
by exertion of any kind, and was especially frequent soon after dinner.
The pain was sometimes felt in the left arm, but was usually confined to
the cardiac region. I once or twice detected a slight aortic obstruction
sound, but aside from this failed to find any evidence of organic
disease. The usual remedies gave no relief, but _Latrodectus_ [Latin:
ezh]c was of great benefit. Under its use the attacks gradually became
less frequent and less severe. He has taken no medicine now for at least
six months, and he tells me that although he occasionally has a little
reminder of his former trouble, the attacks are so slight that he pays
no attention to them. I have given the remedy in another similar case,
with even more gratifying success. The attacks were very promptly
arrested and have not returned, although nearly a year has elapsed. I
think we have in this remedy, to which Dr. S. A. Jones directed
attention in one of the issues of the _Homoeopathic Recorder_, a very
valuable remedy in this painful affection. It is probably, as Dr. Jones
suggests, in angina pectoris vasomotoria that it will be found
especially serviceable.


LEMNA MINOR.

NAT. ORD., Lemnaccæ.

COMMON NAME, Duckweed.

PREPARATION. The fresh plant is pounded to a pulp and macerated in two
parts by weight of alcohol.

     (The following is by Dr. Robert C. Cooper, of London, and
     appeared in the _Hahnemannian Monthly_, 1894):

"The lowest form of phoenogamous vegetation. It consists," says
Lindley, "of lenticular floating fronds, composed of stem and leaf
together and bearing the flowers in slits in the edge." It forms the
green scum found on stagnant ponds and dykes. It is found in two
varieties, the _Lemna minor_ and the _Lemna gibba_.

Before going any further I may as well at once make a bald as well as a
bold statement, and say that the special province of _Lemna minor_ is to
pitch with vigor upon the nostrils; from the very moment I began
prescribing it this was beyond question evident. I can think of no
possible source of error except that this beneficial action may be due
to the germs adhering to the fronds of the _Lemna_ rather than to the
pure plant-force.

To guard against this I have carefully filtered my tincture, but this
has not made the slightest change in its beneficial influence.

CASE I. Woman aged seventy-four; admission date, September 24, 1892.
Nose never clear; breath very unpleasant; for twelve hours nose bled
continuously last Christmas; unable to smell properly; hearing for the
past seven or eight weeks bad; watch not heard on contact. Prescribed
_Lemna minor_ [Greek: theta]A. October 1, 1892: Feeling of cold in nose
is better; sense of obstruction nearly gone; can smell better; hears on
contact on both sides; no medicine. October 22: Decided, though slight
improvement in hearing; nose, throat and all parts around more
comfortable. Last attendance.

In proceeding with the consideration of the action of this remedy, I
must consider myself fortunate in having the following case to bring
forward:

1. A boy of fourteen, whose nose was completely blocked up for the last
two years, and whose nostrils were full of polypi, the nose itself being
broadened, and in whom the nose had been cleared out by operation a year
ago at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, was sent to me by my colleague, Dr.
J. H. Clarke. The boy never remembers having smelt anything, and the
polypi can easily be seen blocking up both nostrils.

From the 26th of November, 1892, to the 4th of March, 1893, four doses
of _Lemna m._ [Greek: theta]A were given at regular intervals without
much change, then _Calcarea carbonica_ 200 was given, and two weeks
after, as he had faceache, _Mercurius_ 3d dec., and on the 8th of April
following the faceache was better but the nose in no way improved.

Then _Lemna_ was given again, and this time with the most pronounced
relief; the nose became much clearer, and he went on taking it, and it
alone with scarcely an exception, in fortnightly doses, till the 14th of
March last, when his nose was quite clear, with none but a very small
polypi visible; he could breathe freely and his sense of smell had
completely returned.

The delay in the manifestation of remedial change from November to March
arose from complete blockage of the nose, and until the space created by
the subsidence in the size of the polypi sufficed for a passage of air
the patient had no reason to acknowledge relief.

In the treatment, both of swollen tonsils and in that of nasal polypi,
the prescriber will be led away at the onset who accepts the testimony
of the patient alone; he should make careful inspection of the parts,
and be guided by what is often but a slight local change, as well as by
concomitant, and it may be remote, symptoms.

2. The next case I have to bring forward is one of ozoena in a girl of
sixteen, who had been three years under the treatment of a colleague who
kindly sent her on to me for treatment at the London Homoeopathic
Hospital. The girl, whose occupation was a teacher, has had ozoena
since three or four years old. The odor complained of was horrid, and
the discharge excessive; a most unpleasant smell in the nose and nasty
taste in the mouth; she takes cold easily if out in the night air or
damp, and her nose, at times, gets stuffed up; bowels irregular;
catamenia only twice--once three months ago and two months before that.

On December 30, 1893, I prescribed _Lemna minor_, and she returned to me
from the country, where she was living, on the 31st of the following
March, imploring me for another powder, as she had been almost well for
two weeks after the last and then had relapsed to her old state;
breathing is short and is low spirited.

21st of April, very much better; odor not nearly so bad, discharge much
less; unmedicated pilules, three times a day.

19th of May, 1894, kept better for a month; took cold two weeks ago, and
since then throat has felt thick and nose has discharged with a horrid
odor. Catamenia regular. Breathing is better; crusts coming from both,
worse on the left side. To have _Lemna minor_.

This patient came from a distance which prevented frequent attendance,
but the above is quite sufficient evidence of the power possessed by
_Lemna m._ in acting upon the nasal mucous membrane.

In both these cases relief was immediate after the administration of the
dose, and in neither case could any reasonable doubt exist as to its
being drug effect.

In some cases I have known a certain disturbance of the bowels to set in
after a dose of _Lemna_, but this effect of the remedy is not
sufficiently pronounced to be able to say much about it. Still it is
interesting to narrate one or two experiences, especially as in the
first of these, at all events, the concomitants were interesting.

3. In a married lady, aged about twenty-six, for whom I prescribed
_Lemna m._ [Greek: theta]A on Saturday afternoon, November 12, 1892, and
in whom there existed a good deal of catarrhal pharyngitis, due to high
up post-nasal ulceration, and who suffered from a dry feeling at the top
of the throat with flatulence, and some pain in the bowels toward the
evening, described as "twisting" pain, and in whom the nose was blocked
on the right side, but without any visible polypus, and in whom the
heart was easily disturbed, causing dyspnoea, the bowels being
slightly confined.

Two weeks subsequently she stated that after the dose of _Lemna_ the
nose felt less blocked, and she felt better in every respect; but that
on the Tuesday following diarrhoea set in, which began with twisting
pains in the bowels and went on to sickness; continual watery stools.
The least chill or nervousness, I must say, upsets her in this way; and
she was subject to the same the last two catamenial periods. She still
wakes with her throat dry and tongue coated. _Borax_ 2x was then
(November 25) given without any noticeable effect, and on the 9th of
December _Lemna minor_ [Greek: theta]A was again prescribed for the
following symptoms:

Mouth sore after talking or singing, and dry in the morning; tongue
coated.

On the 23d of December, reported herself much better; tongue not so
coated; heart less disturbed; no indigestion or diarrhoea.

Nose not perfectly clear, but no unpleasant smell or taste as she used
to have, and throat no longer dry or uncomfortable. Instead of waking up
with a dirty mouth, it feels clean and her taste pure.

4. A man, aged forty-seven, who suffered from old-standing vascular
deafness and who specially complained of snoring a great deal, was given
_Lemna minor_, and next day a rumbling and disturbance in the bowels set
in and he felt as if he had taken medicine of a searching character.
This lasted for three days, bowels acting during this time freely with
much heat in the passage (anus); but was not bilious, nor were the
motions diarrhoeic; the snoring went away, and he ceased to dream
unpleasantly when asleep. Hearing, too, seemed somewhat improved.

5. In another case, after a similar dose, diarrhoea came on next day,
with pains across the bowels as from flatus; worse after eating, and a
very putrid taste with an improvement at the same time in a stuffiness
of the nose from which he was suffering.

6. Crusts form in the right nostril and pain like a string extends from
the right nostril to the ear of the same side and right ear is deaf. (In
a woman, aged twenty-six, great relief.)

It is with great pleasure that I have now to bring forward, not my own
observations, but those of two valued colleagues. Dr. J. H. Clarke sends
me the following:

_Lemna minor_, CASE I. A lady, aged forty-seven, two years previously
met with an accident; a sign board fell on her head when out walking in
the street. Seven days after that was taken with sneezing attacks,
suffered from nasal catarrh with little intermission until March, 1893,
when she came under my care. _Psorinum_ 30 soon put a different
complexion on the case, and she became so far relieved of her trouble
(which has made her life almost unbearable, as she never dared make an
appointment for fear of an attack coming on) that she discontinued
treatment. Last Christmas a sharp attack of influenza brought back the
catarrh, and this time it proved less amenable to treatment.

Fears of polypus distressed the patient, though I could not discover
any.

However, she again made progress, but scarcely as rapid as I could have
wished, when I thought of giving her _Lemna_ on indications given by Dr.
Cooper.

On February 15, 1894, I gave it in the 3x, one tablet four times a day.

February 22, very much better; has felt freer in the head than at any
time during the last ten years; has felt very much better generally;
spirits braced up.

She steadily progressed to cure, and by March 15th could endure the
smell of strong scented flowers, which before was impossible.

CASE II. Captain B., aged forty-four, consulted me on February 29, 1894,
for violent neuralgia on the right side of the neck, the part being
exquisitely sensitive to touch. He had cough and cold for a month. On
getting up in the morning he filled two pocket handkerchiefs with yellow
deflusion before he got his nose clear. I gave him _Bell._ 12 to take
till the neuralgia was better, and then told him to take _Lemna_ 3x gtt.
j. three times a day.

On March 9th he reported that the _Bell._ speedily took away the
neuralgia, and that then the _Lemna_ cleared off the catarrh in a most
astonishing fashion. He never had a medicine to act so magically before.

_30 Clarges street, Piccadilly, W., April 21, 1894._

The next communication that I have to bring forward is one from Dr. J.
C. Burnett:

Dr. Cooper told me that he had relieved a case of nasal polypus with
_Lemna minor_, and having several cases of the kind that had long been
under my observation I thought it my duty to give them the benefit of
_Lemna_.

CASE I. A gentleman of sixty years of age, with nasal polypus only
moderately developed, yet of many years' duration, was much troubled by
the chronic nasal obstruction which was markedly worse in wet weather.

I gave him _Lemna_ 3x, five drops in water, night and morning. Returning
in a month, he exclaimed: "That is the best tonic I have ever taken; I
have never taken any medicine in my life that has done me so much good.
I feel quite comfortable in my nose and can breathe through it quite
well."

CASE II. A lady, about forty-five years of age, mother of a large family
and whom I had formerly cured of an uterine tumor, was so troubled with
nasal polypi that her life was very distressful; moreover, the polypi
had swelled so much that they hung out of the nostrils and compelled the
patient to remain within doors. This was notably the case in wet
weather. Why not have them removed chirurgically?

"Oh, I have had them operated on over and over again, but it's no good;
they only come again worse than ever."

I have tried many things to cure these polypi, but in vain; they would
get temporarily better, but the first rainy weather brought them back
worse than ever; hence Dr. Cooper's recommendation of _Lemna_ is very
welcome to me.

I ordered, as in the last case, with the result that the polypi very
greatly diminished in size, and the patient could again take her place
in society.

I have used _Lemna_ in many other similar cases, and with the like
result. In no case is the polypus really cured, but greatly diminished
in size, and the patient rendered relatively comfortable. Clearly the
_Lemna_ does not either kill, cure or otherwise get rid of the polypi,
but it rids them of much of their succulence and thus reduces their
volume, and also diminishes the influence of wet weather to which such
patients are so prone. And this is no small boon; is itself in every way
superior to any operative interference. The tincture I made use of was
made by Dr. Alfred Heath. The first prescription only being of Dr.
Cooper's own make. Both acted alike well.

_86 Wimpole street, June 4, 1894._

From these remarks of Dr. J. H. Clarke and Dr. J. Compton Burnett, as
well as from my own, I think there can be no doubt, whatever, that the
_Lemna_ exercises a powerful influence upon the Schneiderian mucous
membrane. How far it is capable by its specific action of removing large
groups of polypi remains, as yet, an open question.

My own experience of the treatment of nasal polypi is that we have very
few remedies that can at all be depended upon for giving even temporary
relief. Even from _Calcarea carbonica_ and _Teucrium marum verum_ I have
not had the effects that some practitioners testify to their possessing.

_Lemna_ has so far given relief in my hands to cases of nasal polypi and
to cases where the nostrils were plugged by swollen turbinates and other
causes in a matter far surpassing the effect I have obtained from any
other remedy.

In saying this I do not at all wish it to be understood that we have in
it a specific for all such cases.

We must remember that the symptoms in all such obscure diseases must be
our guide for the selection of our remedy, and that, therefore, the
important point is to work out the specific indications for the drug as
we learn them from clinical observation, in the hope that on some
future occasion pathogenesis may render these still more certain.

The indications that I myself have noticed as belonging to _Lemna_ are
either a putrid smell in the nose or a loss of all sense of smell and a
putrid taste in the mouth, especially on rising in the morning, with a
general foulness of the mouth, due apparently to the dropping down of
impure material from the post-nasal region. Along with this there
sometimes seems to prevail a disposition to "noisy diarrhoea."

Dr. Burnett has noticed that _Lemna_ patients have their nasal symptoms
aggravated in damp and rainy weather, and I have to some extent
confirmed this observation.

I hope on some future occasion to return to the subject of _Lemna_; it
is in every way well worthy of being prosecuted further.

Thus, for example, a lady patient, æt. fifty-eight, suffering from pains
flitting about her head and legs, with pains in her eyes during heavy
rain, and in whom drowsiness by day and restless sleep at night existed,
had all these symptoms removed by a single dose of _Lemna_, and the
pallid, dullish, sickly look in her face changed to a complexion that
was natural and healthy.

The truth would seem to be that _Lemna's_ symptoms are specially
aggravated in heavy rains; _Calendula's_, when heavy clouds are about;
_Rhododendron's_, in thunder storms, and _Dulcamara's_, in damp
surroundings and in foggy weather.

     (In 1895 Dr. Thomas L. Shearer contributed the following
     concerning the remedy to the _Homoeopathic Eye, Ear and
     Throat Journal_):

_Lemna minor_ where the crusts and the muco-purulent discharge are very
abundant with fetor (in rhinitis atrophics). Its action is wonderful,
but it must not be administered in too low a dilution, as it then
produces a sensation of intense dryness in the pharynx and the larynx.
Possibly if it were exhibited in a much higher dilution it would be
applicable to cases which have only a slight amount of discharge. It
seems best to stop the remedy as soon as its action upon the secretions
is marked, and then to wait a while before returning to its further
employment. Dr. Cooper, of London, was, I believe, the first to
investigate the action of _Lemna minor_ upon the upper air passages, but
I do not think that he had tried it in cases of atrophic rhinitis. There
is a great future for this new addition to our therapeutic resources,
and it certainly deserves further investigation. It modifies the
secretions to such an extent that we can more readily improve the
condition of the nasal chambers with the aid of local measures. Whether
it has the power to prevent or even retard the actual process of atrophy
remains to be seen.


LEVICO.

PREPARATION.--Dilutions made from the mineral water or triturations from
the residue obtained by evaporation of the water.

     (Dr. Burnett has called the attention of the profession
     to this water in his books. The following concerning its
     constituents is from _The Therapist_, a London journal):

Of all mineral waters those of Levico are distinguished, not only by
their contents of these three elements, arsenic, iron and copper, but
they are remarkable for the state of combination in which they occur.
Situated in South Tyrol, on the confines of Italy, Levico has for many
years been a favorite sanitorium of the Italian medical profession for
their nervous and skin patients. Of late years Levico water has also
been increasingly recognized by the German and Austrian faculty, among
whom Bamberger, Billroth, Hebra, Nussbaum, and others testify to the
extraordinary remedial activity of the waters, favoring assimilation,
increasing nutrition, and in chronic and dyscratic skin diseases
functioning as antiseptic or astringent.

Merely as an internal medication _Levico_ water has, however, proved so
satisfactory that it is a recognized member of the pharmacopoeia in
many German and Austrian hospitals and clinics. Thus Professor Nussbaum,
of Munich, writes that '_Levico_ water is given in my orthopædic
institute in doses of two or three ounces to scrofulous and anæmic
children. The water is well tolerated, and in spite of the smallness of
the dose the result is, in many cases, very evident.' Professor
Eulenberg, of Berlin, finds _Levico_ water especially satisfactory in
chorea minor in children and at the age of puberty, as well as for
hysterical neuralgia and spasms. A very copious testimony of like nature
has been borne respecting _Levico_ water.


LATHYRUS SATIVUS.

NAT. ORD., Leguminosæ.

COMMON NAMES, Wild Vetch. Chick pea.

PREPARATION.--Trituration of the dried pea.

     (Dr. W. A. Dewey contributed the following paper
     concerning this remedy to the _Medical Century_, 1899):

HISTORY AND DESCRIPTION OF EFFECTS,

The _Lathyrus_ is a vetch, and a member of the leguminosæ family growing
in India.

This remedy, which produces a perfect picture of certain spinal
affections, has been known for over a century. In _Christison's
Toxicology_ it is stated that it causes paraplegia, dragging gait,
turning-in of the toes, stiffness and semi-flexion of the knee-joints.

The attention of the homoeopathic profession was directed to the drug
as a possible remedy in paraplegia, in the _British Journal of
Homoeopathy_, Vol. III. Here is found an account of a wheat famine in
India, where the peas of the plant were substituted for wheat and used
as a food. Those who subsisted on it were taken, even during sleep,
with sudden paralysis of the lower limbs; this occurred without
warning, in young men more than in young women, and was never recovered
from. Another observer records fifty cases who had eaten the _Lathyrus_
bread and all stated that they became paralytic during the wet season of
the country, that they went to bed quite well and awoke with stiff legs,
unsteady gait, and aching, but no severe pain. The upper extremities
were free.

Another who saw the disease in Algeria and described the symptoms found
in ten cases observed that they came on suddenly, in damp weather, with
some pains in the loins, trembling, motor paralysis and exaggerated
reflexes. He attributed these phenomena to an acute transverse myelitis
with degenerative changes in the cord.

A German writer states that the drug produces disturbances of nutrition
of the muscles of the lower extremities, paresis, and that the muscles
of the trunk and neck and face remain unaffected. Sensation remains
normal. It seems to produce a sclerosis of the pyramidal tracts of the
cord.

In animals the same condition is found; namely, paralysis of the hind
legs. Pigs drag their hind legs and horses give out.

AGGRAVATED SYMPTOMATOLOGY.

From all the sources which I have been able to find, the following seem
to be the symptoms caused by the drug:

Sudden loss of power in the lower extremities, from the waist down.

Tremulous, tottering gait.

Great exaggeration of the reflexes.

Stiffness and lameness of the ankles and knees.

Excessive rigidity of the legs; flexion difficult; spastic gait, the
legs becoming interlocked, and walking is difficult or impossible.

Sudden onset of the trouble, and apparent aggravation in cold and damp
weather.

Emaciation of the gluteal muscles also observed.

Those having taken it walked on the metatarso-phalangeal articulation,
the heel not touching the ground.

Impossible to stand steady; swayed from side to side, but closing the
eyes had no effect. This with the exaggerated reflexes would exclude its
use in locomotor ataxia.

Debility and tremors of the legs.

Rigidity of the adductors of the thighs.

Staggering gait, with eyes fixed on the floor.

Could not extend or cross the legs when sitting.

Sensibility unimpaired.

CORRESPONDENCE TO SPINAL DISORDERS.

From these symptoms it will be seen that the effects of the drug
correspond to many spinal symptoms, but more especially to what is known
as spastic paraplegia. Indeed, Struempel asserts that it produces a
perfect picture of this disease.

It is not so often that such a perfect picture of a disease can be had
as in this instance. The disease itself is easily recognized by the
stiff, spastic gait; the spasm of the adductors, causing the knees to
strike each other, or to become locked, causing the patient to fall; the
shuffling of the feet; the excessive muscular rigidity and the other
well-known symptoms of paraplegia.

Therefore, reasoning from our law we would expect the drug to be of
service in such cases, and although our pathogenesis of it is coarse we
may be permitted to apply it to a disease whose symptomatology is of the
coarse order; for it is often difficult to elicit any fine and
characteristic symptoms in diseases like ataxic and spastic paraplegia.

It has been recognized as a remedy by but few of our writers on nervous
diseases. O'Connor finds that marked benefit follows its use in old
cases of myelitis with marked